,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
1273,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,9.5,7.3,9,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Infrastructure renewal (9.1/9.3/9.4/9.5): Financial and technical support can play a critical role in promoting the development of the renewable energy industry and more energy-efficient infrastructure. This includes targeted policy incentives (e.g., subsidies, R&D support) and spending on scientific research to encourage technological...",,,,,,,,,Bha acharyya et al. (2016); Goldthau (2014); Haines et al. (2017); Meltzer (2016); Reza et al. (2011); Riahi et al. (2012),10
1274,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,12.2,7.2,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Natural Resource Protection (12.2/12.3/12.4/12.5): Renewable energy and energy efficiency slow the depletion of several types of natural resources, namely coal, oil, natural gas, and uranium. Advanced technologies and infrastructure will, however, still require vast amounts of minerals, including both common commodities and critial rare earth elements. Supplies of these minerals face long-term limitations, and it will take time before recycling activities can contribute at a massive scale. Increasing recycling rates offers a means to improve the energy efficiency of materials production and use and consequently to reduce the impacts of mining and extraction, raw goods conversion, and waste incineration and landfilling. Waste-to-energy technologies can generate useful energy (electricity, heating/cooling) from disposables that are not suitable for recycling. The phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies encourages less wasteful energy...",,,,,,,,,Ali et al. (2017); Banerjee et al. (2012); Bha acharyya et al. (2016); Cameron et al. (2016); Carmona et al. (2017); Gutowski et al. (2017); Ham and Lee (2017); Riahi et al. (2012); Schandl et al. (2016); Schwanitz et al. (2014),11
1275,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,12.2,7.3,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Natural Resource Protection (12.2/12.3/12.4/12.5): Renewable energy and energy efficiency slow the depletion of several types of natural resources, namely coal, oil, natural gas, and uranium. Advanced technologies and infrastructure will, however, still require vast amounts of minerals, including both common commodities and critial rare earth elements. Supplies of these minerals face long-term limitations, and it will take time before recycling activities can contribute at a massive scale. Increasing recycling rates offers a means to improve the energy efficiency of materials production and use and consequently to reduce the impacts of mining and extraction, raw goods conversion, and waste incineration and landfilling. Waste-to-energy technologies can generate useful energy (electricity, heating/cooling) from disposables that are not suitable for recycling. The phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies encourages less wasteful energy...",,,,,,,,,Ali et al. (2017); Banerjee et al. (2012); Bha acharyya et al. (2016); Cameron et al. (2016); Carmona et al. (2017); Gutowski et al. (2017); Ham and Lee (2017); Riahi et al. (2012); Schandl et al. (2016); Schwanitz et al. (2014),11
1276,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,Interaction impact will be felt beyond 15 years,12.3,7.3,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Natural Resource Protection (12.2/12.3/12.4/12.5): Renewable energy and energy efficiency slow the depletion of several types of natural resources, namely coal, oil, natural gas, and uranium. Advanced technologies and infrastructure will, however, still require vast amounts of minerals, including both common commodities and critial rare earth elements. Supplies of these minerals face long-term limitations, and it will take time before recycling activities can contribute at a massive scale. Increasing recycling rates offers a means to improve the energy efficiency of materials production and use and consequently to reduce the impacts of mining and extraction, raw goods conversion, and waste incineration and landfilling. Waste-to-energy technologies can generate useful energy (electricity, heating/cooling) from disposables that are not suitable for recycling. The phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies encourages less wasteful energy...",,,,,,,,,Ali et al. (2017); Banerjee et al. (2012); Bha acharyya et al. (2016); Cameron et al. (2016); Carmona et al. (2017); Gutowski et al. (2017); Ham and Lee (2017); Riahi et al. (2012); Schandl et al. (2016); Schwanitz et al. (2014),11
1277,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,Interaction impact will be felt beyond 15 years,12.4,7.3,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Natural Resource Protection (12.2/12.3/12.4/12.5): Renewable energy and energy efficiency slow the depletion of several types of natural resources, namely coal, oil, natural gas, and uranium. Advanced technologies and infrastructure will, however, still require vast amounts of minerals, including both common commodities and critial rare earth elements. Supplies of these minerals face long-term limitations, and it will take time before recycling activities can contribute at a massive scale. Increasing recycling rates offers a means to improve the energy efficiency of materials production and use and consequently to reduce the impacts of mining and extraction, raw goods conversion, and waste incineration and landfilling. Waste-to-energy technologies can generate useful energy (electricity, heating/cooling) from disposables that are not suitable for recycling. The phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies encourages less wasteful energy...",,,,,,,,,Ali et al. (2017); Banerjee et al. (2012); Bha acharyya et al. (2016); Cameron et al. (2016); Carmona et al. (2017); Gutowski et al. (2017); Ham and Lee (2017); Riahi et al. (2012); Schandl et al. (2016); Schwanitz et al. (2014),11
1278,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,Interaction impact will be felt beyond 15 years,12.5,7.3,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Natural Resource Protection (12.2/12.3/12.4/12.5): Renewable energy and energy efficiency slow the depletion of several types of natural resources, namely coal, oil, natural gas, and uranium. Advanced technologies and infrastructure will, however, still require vast amounts of minerals, including both common commodities and critial rare earth elements. Supplies of these minerals face long-term limitations, and it will take time before recycling activities can contribute at a massive scale. Increasing recycling rates offers a means to improve the energy efficiency of materials production and use and consequently to reduce the impacts of mining and extraction, raw goods conversion, and waste incineration and landfilling. Waste-to-energy technologies can generate useful energy (electricity, heating/cooling) from disposables that are not suitable for recycling. The phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies encourages less wasteful energy...",,,,,,,,,Ali et al. (2017); Banerjee et al. (2012); Bha acharyya et al. (2016); Cameron et al. (2016); Carmona et al. (2017); Gutowski et al. (2017); Ham and Lee (2017); Riahi et al. (2012); Schandl et al. (2016); Schwanitz et al. (2014),11
1279,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,7.2,13,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Climate Strategies and Education (13.2/13.3): Better integrating climate change measures into national planning and improving education, awareness, and capacity on climate issues will go a long way in furthering international targets for renewables and energy efficiency.",,,,,,,,,IPCC (2011); Jennings (2009); Schreurs (2008),11
1280,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,7.3,13,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Climate Strategies and Education (13.2/13.3): Better integrating climate change measures into national planning and improving education, awareness, and capacity on climate issues will go a long way in furthering international targets for renewables and energy efficiency.",,,,,,,,,IPCC (2011); Jennings (2009); Schreurs (2008),11
1281,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,7.2,13,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Climate Strategies and Education (13.2/13.3): Better integrating climate change measures into national planning and improving education, awareness, and capacity on climate issues will go a long way in furthering international targets for renewables and energy efficiency.",,,,,,,,,IPCC (2011); Jennings (2009); Schreurs (2008),11
1282,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,7.3,13,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Climate Strategies and Education (13.2/13.3): Better integrating climate change measures into national planning and improving education, awareness, and capacity on climate issues will go a long way in furthering international targets for renewables and energy efficiency.",,,,,,,,,IPCC (2011); Jennings (2009); Schreurs (2008),11
1283,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,16.6,7.1,16,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Institutional Capacity and Accountability (16.1/16.3/16.5/16.6/16.7/16.8: Institutions that are effective, accountable, and transparent are needed at all levels of government (local to national to international) for providing  energy access, promoting modern renewables, and boosting efficiency. Strengthening the participation of developing countries in international institutions (e.g., international energy agencies, United Nations organizations, World Trade Organization, regional development banks and beyond) will be...",,,,,,,,,"Acemoglu (2009); Acemoglu et al. (2014); ICSU, ISSC (2015); Tabellini (2010)",12
1284,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,16.6,7.2,16,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Institutional Capacity and Accountability (16.1/16.3/16.5/16.6/16.7/16.8: Institutions that are effective, accountable, and transparent are needed at all levels of government (local to national to international) for providing  energy access, promoting modern renewables, and boosting efficiency. Strengthening the participation of developing countries in international institutions (e.g., international energy agencies, United Nations organizations, World Trade Organization, regional development banks and beyond) will be...",,,,,,,,,"Acemoglu (2009); Acemoglu et al. (2014); ICSU, ISSC (2015); Tabellini (2010)",12
1285,"David L McCollum, Luis Gomez Echeverri, Sebastian Busch, Shonali Pachauri, Simon Parkinson, Joeri Rogelj , VolkerKrey, Jan C Minx, Mans Nilsson, Anne-Sophie Stevance and Keywan Riahi",2018,Connecting the sustainable development goals by their energy inter-linkages,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,16.6,7.3,16,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Institutional Capacity and Accountability (16.1/16.3/16.5/16.6/16.7/16.8: Institutions that are effective, accountable, and transparent are needed at all levels of government (local to national to international) for providing  energy access, promoting modern renewables, and boosting efficiency. Strengthening the participation of developing countries in international institutions (e.g., international energy agencies, United Nations organizations, World Trade Organization, regional development banks and beyond) will be...",,,,,,,,,"Acemoglu (2009); Acemoglu et al. (2014); ICSU, ISSC (2015); Tabellini (2010)",12
1286,"Ebi, K.L., et al.",2016,Current medical research funding and frameworks are insufficient to address the health risks of global environmental change,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,3.9,13,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"International commitments in 2015 underscored the significant challenges societies will face this century from climate change and other global changes. However, the low priority placed on understanding and managing the associated health risks by national and international research institutions and organizations leaves populations poorly prepared to cope with changing health burdens. ","disconnect between national political ambitions of importance for climate change and health and the funding support by those agencies with the mandate and budget to conduct the necessary research: health research institutes and organizations have not matched national and international political commitments with investments in scientific research into understanding, managing, and monitoring the current and projected health risks of global change. Health research is not keeping pace with the needs of local to national decision-makers for insights needed for effective policies and programs to protect population health and well-being today and in a very different future.  health system policies are just beginning to be revised to explicitly incorporate climate variability and change. Understanding is needed of how best to modify current and implement new policies within the context of iterative risk management, so that resources are deployed efficiently, focusing on protecting individuals and communities from the current impacts of climate change while increasing the range of options available to future decision-makers to manage changing risks","more funding into research on how climate and other global change affects health risks is required.  The mismatch between acknowledgement of the health risks posed by climate change by major health research institutes and organizations and funding priorities is not only due to limited research funds in general, but likely due to multiple issues and competing priorities to better manage current health burdens. Two issues may contribute to this mismatch: viewing climate change as primarily an environmental problem, and therefore the responsibility of other research streams; and narrowly framing the health risks of climate change from the perspective of medicine and traditional public health, not from a systems-based approach considering the multiple interacting socioeconomic and environmental drivers.",,,Strong,"For more than 20 years, there have been warnings of the potential consequences of climate change on a wide range of health outcomes [15]. For example, climate and health researchers have been warning that warming temperatures could increase the geographic range and incidence of vectorborne diseases. Yet now that the Americas are struggling with large outbreaks of Zika virus, calls for research are focusing on vaccine development and not also considering environmental and social factors (e.g. travel) that can be used to forecast hotspots of transmission.","Risk-centered, systems approaches can facilitate understanding of the complex interactions and dependencies across environmental, social, and human systems. This understanding is needed to formulate effective interventions targeting socio-environmental factors that are as important for determining health burdens as are individual risk factors. ",17 -> 3; 13 -> 3,,1
1287,ECA,2017,Africa report on the Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2063,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,,,4.4,8.1,4,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The potential demographic dividend that is represented by the population of young people in Africa requires adequate human capital development policies and systems to ensure their productive engagement, and education and skills development opportunities",,,,,,"Given the ageing global population, Africa’s youthful population will be a boost for its growth – over the next 20 years, Africa will have a labour force of close to 1.1 billion, larger than that of China or India",,,,1
1288,ECA,2017,Africa report on the Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2063,Global Assessment,"Africa, excluding North Africa",Regional,,,,,13,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Poverty and food insecurity remain widespread, especially in Africa, excluding North Africa. Africa’s progress in reducing poverty, hunger and food security remains vulnerable to natural and man-made crises, ranging from droughts and floods leading to crop failure to inter-tribal conflicts, civil wars and low investment in agriculture",,,,,,"Globally, by 2012 poverty had been reduced to 13 per cent (United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, 2016). ",,,,2
1289,ECA,2017,Africa report on the Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2063,Global Assessment,"Africa, excluding North Africa",Regional,,,,,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Poverty and food insecurity remain widespread, especially in Africa, excluding North Africa. Africa’s progress in reducing poverty, hunger and food security remains vulnerable to natural and man-made crises, ranging from droughts and floods leading to crop failure to inter-tribal conflicts, civil wars and low investment in agriculture",,,,,,"Globally, by 2012 poverty had been reduced to 13 per cent (United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, 2016). ",,,,2
1290,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.4,2.1,2,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,A rise in agricultural productivity is key to adress food insecurity,"With climate change and rainfall patterns changing, investment in irrigation is required to ensure sustainable food production and increased factor productivity.","Binding constraints to agricultural productivity in Africa include limited irrigation infrastructure and low budgetary allocations to the sector. Only 5 per cent of agricultural land in Africa is irrigated, compared with 41 per cent in Asia and 21 per cent globally.",,,,Table 3.4 AGRICULTURAL VALUE ADDED PER WORKER + Figure 3.3 AGRICULTURAL IRRIGATED LAND AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL AGRICULTURAL LAND,,"The effects of El Niño underlines the need for all countries to be well prepared for such emergencies, including through strengthening climate-smart agricultural practices, investing in irrigation and building emergency food reserves.",,xii
1291,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,3.7,3.2,3,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Reduction in maternal morality rates and under-five deaths happen due to improved access to skilled birth attendants and family planning,,,,,,"Table 4.2 MATERNAL MORTALITY RATIO BY REGION + Figure 4.5 UNDER-FIVE MORTALITY RATE BY COUNTRY, 2013 AND 2015 + Table 4.3 ESTIMATED HIV INCIDENCE RATE BY REGION","Ethiopia: task-sharing for maternal newborn child and adolescent health and family planning, which is improving critical services to lower levels of care; increased political will through strong collaboration and partnerships  between the Government and partners in improving skilled birth attendance",,,xiii + chapter 4
1292,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,8.3,1.2,8,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Decent job creation for all is needed for having inclusive and sustainable economic growth and hereby reduce poverty,"More attention to labour-intensive sectors, such as agriculture and processing, is needed to promote employment and to reduce poverty and inequality faster. Labour market interventions to secure labour rights","The pace of poverty reduction in Africa (excluding North Africa) has been slower than anticipated due to the region’s structural challenges and its lack of resilience to shocks, which makes it susceptible to many reversals ",,,Strong,Approximately 60 per cent of jobs in Africa are considered vulnerable. Figure 2.5 PROPORTION OF WORKING POPULATION LIVING UNDER $1.90 PER DAY + Figure 2.6 VULNERABLE EMPLOYMENT PER REGION + Figure 2.9 PROPORTION OF EMPLOYED POPULATION BELOW THE POVERTY LINE BY SEX,,,"manufacturing is seen as having great potential for increasing productivity, creating decent jobs and thereby improving socioeconomic development prospects.",viii + chapter 2
1293,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,,,14,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The world’s oceans and seas play a critical role in supporting populations, economic activity and regulating the global climate. Environmental degradation and the risk of flooding are the main challenges to the oceans and coastal areas.","Coastal national Governments, with the support the international community, need to do more to mitigate the impact of population pressure and economic activities on the coastal habitats through better coordinated planning and research. Thus, there is a need for robust spending on research and development.",Life below water and climate change are areas requiring concerted international effort to generate baselines for effective reporting,,Environmental degradation if economic growth is not sustainable  ,,"Box 7.1 KEY FACTS ABOUT LIFE BELOW WATER FOR AFRICA + Figure 7.2 COVERAGE OF PROTECTED AREAS, 2016",Action by the international community is required to define property rights and responsibilities for additional investment and protection of the global commons problem,"Subsidies to the fishing industry induce overfishing and adversely affect the ocean food chain, which can lead to food insecurity and poor livelihoods.",Box 7.2 SMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING STATES ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: LESSONS FROM SEYCHELLES,Chapter 7
1294,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,17.18,16.6,17,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Increasing significantly the availability of high-quality, timely and reliable data will support the development of effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels and progress on democratic and electoral governance, human rights and rule of law","Building the capacities of African countries to meet the increased demand in quality statistics emanating from their development agendas. Moreover, national statistical authorities need to work with other  stakeholders, such as the private sector and civil society organizations that are involved in data-production activities.","Investment is required to improve statistics for the effective measurement of sustainable development indicators, including further investment in the national statistical systems in order to develop capacity in a range of areas, such as administrative records and civil registration and vital statistics. ",,investments are required,Strong,Approximately six out of every ten SDG indicators cannot be tracked in Africa due to severe data limitations. Table 1.2: DATA SOURCES OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL INDICATORS ON AFRICA,"Most countries are not able to collect data in a regular and timely manner, in particular conflict and post-conflict countries. In addition, improvements in other data sources, such as administrative data, civil  registration and vital statistics and geospatial data, have been very slow","The emerging capital markets and stock exchanges require quality data on inflation, gross domestic product (GDP) and other economic data for appropriate investment decisions, to some extent explaining",,viii + chapter 1
1295,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,17.5,2.1,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased efficiency of investments in agriculture through Investment promotion is vital to adressing food insecurity,,"A total of 161 million people in Africa were severely food insecure in 2015. By far, the majority of them, or 96 per cent, were from rural areas.",,,,No African sub-region met the target of allocating 10 per cent of the national budget to agriculture. Figure 3.1 ESTIMATED PREVALENCE OF MODERATE OR SEVERE FOOD INSECURITY IN THE ADULT POPULATION + Figure 3.4 ANNUAL AGRICULTURE SHARE IN TOTAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURE,,,,viii
1296,ECA,2017,Background paper on building resilient infrastructure and promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization and innovation,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,9.1,8.2,9,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,well-functioning infrastructure is a key driver of economic development,infrastructure development,,the people benefitting from the economic development,,Strong,,"Several regional and international initiatives; AIDA, UNIDO, PIDA, TAH",,,1
1297,ECA,2017,Background paper on building resilient infrastructure and promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization and innovation,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,9.2,1.2,9,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Expansion of private sector industrial activities provide a foundation for meeting the basic needs of the poor. ,industrialization strategies,Sustainable economic development will not be possible without industrialization,People being lifted out of poverty,,Strong,,,inclusive economic growth and in addition industry produces a health-related goods,Greening Africa's Industrialization. Economic Report on Africa (2016).,7
1298,ECA,2017,Background paper on building resilient infrastructure and promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization and innovation,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,9.3,8.2,9,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Industrialization leads to higher levels of productivity particularly in the manufacturing sector,a strong commitment by African Governments,,national benefits of a stronger and more stable workforce,,Strong,,,Well-diversified economies reduce vulnerability to fluctating raw commodity prices,,2
1299,ECA,2017,Background paper on building resilient infrastructure and promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization and innovation,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,,,17,9,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Capacity development programmes that focus on the design and implementation of projects are needed. ,national education and training programmes. Capacities should include both technical and financial competencies,,,,Strong,,,,It is critical to improve the capacity of institutions responsible for data gathering and analysis.,8
1300,ECA,2017,Background paper on ending hunger and achieving food security in Africa,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,,2.5,2.4,2,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Implementation of biodiversity conservation initiatives is a means to resilient agricultural practices,regulation and management concerning biodiversity conservation,,,,Strong,,,Relates to sustainable ecosystem management,,4
1301,ECA,2017,Background paper on ending hunger and achieving food security in Africa,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,17.3,2.1,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"increased investments must  be made in agriculture, agribusinesses and related infrastructure to end hunger",Prioritizing investments in agriculture,,,,Strong,"Figure 9 - The Agriculture Orientation Index for government expenditures in Africa Figure 10 - Agriculture Orientation Index for government expenditure by region, 2001 - 2013 Figure 11 - official development assistance allocated to Africa's agriculture, forestry and fishing",,,,2
1302,ECA,2017,Background paper on ending hunger and achieving food security in Africa,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,17.6,2.1,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,mechanisms that provide for timely responses to meet urgent food needs resulting from conflicts and natural disasters.,Investments in capacity building related to monitoring conflicts,,,,Strong,,,,,2
1303,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all”,Global Assessment,Africa,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,,,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,a healthy population is more productive and has greater potential to contribute to the overall economic and social development of a region or country.,Investments in health care ,,,,Strong,,the World Health Organization (WHO) has been able to demonstrate that the implementation of directly observed treatment short-course (DOTS) and the Stop TB Strategy by member States resulted in the saving of an estimated 10.1 million lives in Africa between 2000 and 2014.,,"Africa has posted significant gains in health over the last one and a half decades. For example, there has been a considerable decline in new-born, child, maternal and adult mortality rates and substantial decreases in the burdens of several diseases",1
1304,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all”,Global Assessment,Africa,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,,,5,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"the upholding of health rights plays a critical role in attaining Goal 5 on gender equality and empowerment of women and girls, which includes a specific target on universal access to reproductive health and reproductive rights",African member States must make the crucial investments in the full realization of sexual and reproductive health and rights of women and young people.,,,,Strong,,"reproductive health, family planning",,,2
1305,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Eradicating all forms of poverty in Africa”,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,8.1,1.2,8,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions to encourage and to expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all is important to end poverty",regulation of financial services,,,,Strong,,,,,3
1306,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Eradicating all forms of poverty in Africa”,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,,,8,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all are required to end poverty",enabling economic growth and policies targeting decent work for all,,,,Strong,,,,,3
1307,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Eradicating all forms of poverty in Africa”,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,10.4,1.5,10,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Social protection will build resilience among recivers ,Policies strengthening social protection,,,,Strong,"Social protection and social security have gained increased interest since the adoption of the African Union Social Policy Framework in Africa, in Windhoek, in October 2008.",,,Agenda 2063 recognizes that social protection should be a State obligation,2
1308,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Eradicating all forms of poverty in Africa”,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,17.1,1.3,17,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,improving of domestic capacity for tax collection is a means to social protection,Tax collection,,,,Strong,,,,,4
1309,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Eradicating all forms of poverty in Africa”,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,17.18,1.2,17,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Weak data systems and data gaps are barriers of ending poverty ,Capacity building of data collection and data analysis,,,,Strong,,,,,3
1310,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls”,Global Assessment,Africa,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,16.3,5.1,16,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"A critical barrier to the elimination of violence against women and girls is the lack of laws on such violence or, where they exist, failure to enforce them effectively.",,,,,,,,,"Women, Business and the Law (WBL) database (2016),",4
1311,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.19,17.15,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Strengthening national statistical capabilities is an element of governance that has been emphasized in the discussions on the SDGs. Such capacity is crucial not only to measuring the progress of SDGs implementation, but also to designing effective policy interventions and to rational resource allocation. Assessments of the need for capacity strengthening in this area have been carried out and efforts to enhance statistical capacity are being planned","Nevertheless, while better data is important, the SDGs will not be implemented by statistics and indicators; strengthening other aspects of governments’ capacity is still necessary.",,,,Strong,,,,,15
1312,ESCAP,2016,Analytical Framework for Integration of Water and Sanitation SDGs and Targets using Systems Thinking Approach,Global Assessment,Asia-Pacific Region,Local,,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,2.4,6.3,2,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Case: benefits of vertical farming, which is a method to produce food within urban limits in specially constructed buildings. The concept of vertical farming is being developed under pilot projects in various places around the Asia and the Pacific, such as Australia, China, Japan, or the Republic of Korea. The basic purpose of this method is to reduce soil use, and to protect crops from extreme weather events. That is to say, to achieve a resilient and sustainable food production system [2.4]. vertical farms could help to improve water [6.3] quality by using a closed loop system to convert safe-to-use grey water into drinking water through transpiration.",,,urban farmers and population,traditional agriculture,strong,,,"Wastewater issues could be additionally corrected by the incorporation of waste-to-energy strategies [7.1]. Furthermore, the use of aeroponics and aquaponics would reduce water consumption, ensuring thus water-use efficiency and increasing the volume of available fresh water [6.4]. Finally, the reduced impact on ecosystems of agricultural runoff laden [11.6] would contribute to the safety of water-related ecosystems [6.6, 15.1].",,24
1313,ESCAP,2016,Analytical Framework for Integration of Water and Sanitation SDGs and Targets using Systems Thinking Approach,Global Assessment,Asia-Pacific Region,Local,,,2.4,8.2,2,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In case of vertical farming, the economic outcome of higher productivity could incentivize the use of more efficient and clean methods of water use, particularly through the practises we’ve mentioned.",,,urban farmers and population,traditional agriculture,strong,,,"Improved economic productivity can directly influence SDGs target 6.1, 6.3 and 6.4. Decreased environmental degradation [8.4] is also one of the main outputs of vertical farming; since environmental degradation associated with agricultural grow would be reduced. Again, target 8.4 is also one of the main influencers for targets 6.3, 6.4, and 6.6; given that a lesser environmental degradation would entail lower water pollution, greater availability of water sources that facilitate water-use efficiency and a smaller damage over water-related ecosystems. In sum, targets 6.3, 6.4 and 6.6 are the specific central components influenced by vertical farming under the field of SDG 6. At the same time, these targets can provide a critical impact over some of the targets addressed by vertical farming, as for example over resilience and adaptive capacity to climate change-related disasters [13.1].",,25
1314,ESCAP,2016,Water markets in Asia,Global Assessment,the Asia Pacific region,Regional,Developing,,,,6,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Improved access to adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all is key to ensuring healthy lives ,"National governments must make sustainable advancements in water, wastewater, and sanitation management a high level policy priority as essential prerequisites for sustainable development",,,,Strong,,,,,44
1315,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,Italy,National,,,,,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In fact healthy food habits (food pyramid) have positive effects on health (e.g. on life expectancy, physical component summary, obesity, nutrition) while lower environmental impacts, as a consequence of food sustainability (environmental pyramid), have positive effects on environment and landscape (e.g. material flows, GHG’s emissions, erosion of farmland from abandonment, urban sprawl).","Finally as the Politics and Institutions, Quality of services, Education and Research and Innovation domains is concerned they have been considered as the driver domains, mainly those fields where policies aimed at promoting food sustainability and effective Nexus management can take places. For instance spread food sustainability through food education, especially at the early stage of life, is a crucial issue towards the sustainable development processes, as well as promoting the philosophy of reuse, educate to waste ending and recycling are crucial policies for progress.",,,,Strong,,,,"On the way of the ongoing SDG’S process and the increasing international awareness about the importance of the Nexus approach and its impacts on people well being, the aim of this section is to investigate on the linkages between the Nexus and well-being. In particular this theoretical exercise will frame the Nexus within the Italian BES (Benessere equo e sostenibile) modeling framework. The idea is to look at the BES domains and figure out the possible links to food-energy-water security identifying the areas of intervention (drivers) and the direct and indirect impacts on well-being.",738
1316,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The complexity of the interrelations is well interpreted by the ratio of the Nexus itself that links three interdependent, scarce and precious resources to human development. Producing food takes lots of water, bringing water to food as well as moving food and distributing it takes lots of energy and at the same time water and food are also sources of energy (hydropower and corn-based ethanol) so that the complex interlinkages of the Nexus take shape.   agriculture and energy are strongly interrelated. From the production of fertilizers to the processing and transport of food products to market, fossil fuels are required to keep industrialized agriculture in business. As a matter of fact the first energy consumer in producing food is fertilizers used in huge quantity by industrial farms, then modern agriculture relies upon machinery that runs on gasoline and diesel fuel, and equipment that uses electricity (e.g., lights, pumps, fans, etc.) and last but not least, most of the food produced today is highly processed and heavily packaged with further increasing in energy footprint and the transportation contributes to energy consumption, especially at the extent of increasing migration from rural to urban areas. Besides, as the world biofuel production has increased over times, traditional food crops are being diverted to energy production, primarily turning corn into ethanol. That means the first direct impact is to reduce food and feed availability, inducing accordingly an increase in prices and a reduction of food demand by the poor.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals1, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections, world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",733-735
1317,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,Italy,National,,,,,2,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In fact healthy food habits (food pyramid) have positive effects on health (e.g. on life expectancy, physical component summary, obesity, nutrition) while lower environmental impacts, as a consequence of food sustainability (environmental pyramid), have positive effects on environment and landscape (e.g. material flows, GHG’s emissions, erosion of farmland from abandonment, urban sprawl).","Finally as the Politics and Institutions, Quality of services, Education and Research and Innovation domains is concerned they have been considered as the driver domains, mainly those fields where policies aimed at promoting food sustainability and effective Nexus management can take places. For instance spread food sustainability through food education, especially at the early stage of life, is a crucial issue towards the sustainable development processes, as well as promoting the philosophy of reuse, educate to waste ending and recycling are crucial policies for progress.",,,,Strong,,,,"On the way of the ongoing SDG’S process and the increasing international awareness about the importance of the Nexus approach and its impacts on people well being, the aim of this section is to investigate on the linkages between the Nexus and well-being. In particular this theoretical exercise will frame the Nexus within the Italian BES (Benessere equo e sostenibile) modeling framework. The idea is to look at the BES domains and figure out the possible links to food-energy-water security identifying the areas of intervention (drivers) and the direct and indirect impacts on well-being.",738
1318,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The complexity of the interrelations is well interpreted by the ratio of the Nexus itself that links three interdependent, scarce and precious resources to human development. Producing food takes lots of water, bringing water to food as well as moving food and distributing it takes lots of energy and at the same time water and food are also sources of energy (hydropower and corn-based ethanol) so that the complex interlinkages of the Nexus take shape.   water is considered the key to food security. The link between water and food is simple: crops and livestock need water to grow. Agriculture accounts for 70% of all water withdrawn by the agricultural, municipal and industrial (including energy) sectors. This suggests that water use for irrigation deserves special attention in any analysis of the implications of future water scarcity for the global economy7. In agriculture water for livestock production accounts for 20% of total water used by this sector8. This includes both the direct use like animal drinking, feed-mixing and service as well as the indirect use for grazing and growing feed crops. Then irrigation efficiency is the key to water security. According to the FAO, average world irrigation efficiency was around 50% in 2005/2007 (about one-half of the water withdrawal is “lost” between the source and the destination). In fact it is well recognized that there is considerable room for improving water productivity.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals1, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections, world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",733-735
1319,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The complexity of the interrelations is well interpreted by the ratio of the Nexus itself that links three interdependent, scarce and precious resources to human development. Producing food takes lots of water, bringing water to food as well as moving food and distributing it takes lots of energy and at the same time water and food are also sources of energy (hydropower and corn-based ethanol) so that the complex interlinkages of the Nexus take shape.   “The world’s energy and water are inextricably linked. With demand rising for both resources and increasing challenges from climate change, water scarcity can threaten the long-term viability of energy projects and hinder development”. Energy generation and transmission requires utilization of water resources, particularly for hydroelectric, nuclear, and thermal energy sources. Still while hydropower is the most obvious application of water to generate electricity some authors 9 , studied the life cycle water requirement of a variety of power generation technologies. They conclude that: “water used for cooling of thermoelectric power plants dominates the life cycle water use in most cases; the coal, natural gas, and nuclear fuel cycles require substantial water per megawatt-hour in most cases; and, a substantial proportion of life cycle water use per megawatt-hour is required for the manufacturing and construction of concentrating solar, geothermal, photovoltaic, and wind power facilities.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals1, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections, world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",733-735
1320,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The complexity of the interrelations is well interpreted by the ratio of the Nexus itself that links three interdependent, scarce and precious resources to human development. Producing food takes lots of water, bringing water to food as well as moving food and distributing it takes lots of energy and at the same time water and food are also sources of energy (hydropower and corn-based ethanol) so that the complex interlinkages of the Nexus take shape.   agriculture and energy are strongly interrelated. From the production of fertilizers to the processing and transport of food products to market, fossil fuels are required to keep industrialized agriculture in business. As a matter of fact the first energy consumer in producing food is fertilizers used in huge quantity by industrial farms, then modern agriculture relies upon machinery that runs on gasoline and diesel fuel, and equipment that uses electricity (e.g., lights, pumps, fans, etc.) and last but not least, most of the food produced today is highly processed and heavily packaged with further increasing in energy footprint and the transportation contributes to energy consumption, especially at the extent of increasing migration from rural to urban areas. Besides, as the world biofuel production has increased over times, traditional food crops are being diverted to energy production, primarily turning corn into ethanol. That means the first direct impact is to reduce food and feed availability, inducing accordingly an increase in prices and a reduction of food demand by the poor.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals1, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections , world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",733-735
1321,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The complexity of the interrelations is well interpreted by the ratio of the Nexus itself that links three interdependent, scarce and precious resources to human development. Producing food takes lots of water, bringing water to food as well as moving food and distributing it takes lots of energy and at the same time water and food are also sources of energy (hydropower and corn-based ethanol) so that the complex interlinkages of the Nexus take shape.   “The world’s energy and water are inextricably linked. With demand rising for both resources and increasing challenges from climate change, water scarcity can threaten the long-term viability of energy projects and hinder development”. Energy generation and transmission requires utilization of water resources, particularly for hydroelectric, nuclear, and thermal energy sources. Still while hydropower is the most obvious application of water to generate electricity some authors 9 , studied the life cycle water requirement of a variety of power generation technologies. They conclude that: “water used for cooling of thermoelectric power plants dominates the life cycle water use in most cases; the coal, natural gas, and nuclear fuel cycles require substantial water per megawatt-hour in most cases; and, a substantial proportion of life cycle water use per megawatt-hour is required for the manufacturing and construction of concentrating solar, geothermal, photovoltaic, and wind power facilities.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections, world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",733-735
1322,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"As the land side of the nexus is concerned a specific goal is not present, still they implicitly refer several times to it through improved agricultural productivity and enlarged natural resource efficiency. Finally the Goal 12 can be interpreted at the extent of the nexus as a cross cutting goal aimed at ensuring an integrating management of the natural resources. In fact the target 12,2 By 2030 achieve sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources is supposed to go through this direction, while the other goals wish for a greater awareness of companies and people on sustainable behavior such that an integrated management is facilitated.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals1, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections, world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",736
1323,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"As the land side of the nexus is concerned a specific goal is not present, still they implicitly refer several times to it through improved agricultural productivity and enlarged natural resource efficiency. Finally the Goal 12 can be interpreted at the extent of the nexus as a cross cutting goal aimed at ensuring an integrating management of the natural resources. In fact the target 12,2 By 2030 achieve sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources is supposed to go through this direction, while the other goals wish for a greater awareness of companies and people on sustainable behavior such that an integrated management is facilitated.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections, world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",736
1324,"Fabiola, R., and D.R. Dalila",2016,How the nexus of water/food/energy can be seen with the perspective of people well being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"As the land side of the nexus is concerned a specific goal is not present, still they implicitly refer several times to it through improved agricultural productivity and enlarged natural resource efficiency. Finally the Goal 12 can be interpreted at the extent of the nexus as a cross cutting goal aimed at ensuring an integrating management of the natural resources. In fact the target 12,2 By 2030 achieve sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources is supposed to go through this direction, while the other goals wish for a greater awareness of companies and people on sustainable behavior such that an integrated management is facilitated.",Policies neglecting these linkages may be sub-optimal and can actually create problems instead of solving them; i.e. they might resolve a specific problem with one of these resources but at the same time impact the others and create additional (and unforeseen) problems. Therefore an integrated approach is needed.,"Moreover as the demand grows, there is increasing competition for resources between water, energy, and agriculture and an integrated management of resources becomes even more essential. ",,,Strong,"In fact despite the progress the international community has done in compliance with the past Millennium Development Goals, according to the World Bank, 1.2 billion still lack access to electricity, at least 748 million are without access to clean, safe drinking water and 870 million are malnourished.  according to the UN global projections, world population is expected to grow of 30% (reaching 9.5 billion people) by 2050, with a 35% increasing in developing countries against a tiny 3% increasing in developed ones. Besides, by 2050 urban population will increase at 75% growth rate, filling the world’s cities with around 6.2 billion people, against only 3.2 billion of rural population expected to decrease by 4.6 percentage point. In this perspective the demand of natural resources is supposed to grow exponentially and accordingly the competition among these is expected to burden with an increasing need of ensuring food, water and energy security. In particular as the OECD Environmental outlook report has shown the global primary energy demand is expected to grow of 40% by 2030 and of another 30% by 2050 while the global water demand is projected to increase significantly by 55%.","a nexus approach presents a conceptual approach to better understand and systematically analyze the interactions between the natural environment and human activities, and to work towards a more coordinated management and use of natural resources across sectors and scales. This can be helpful to identify and manage trade-offs and to build synergies for a more integrated and cost-effective planning, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.",,"According to the latest OECD Global Forum on Environment “ Water, food and energy are crucial for sustainable long term economic growth and human wellbeing” and crucial is the identification of the strong linkages between all three. As the UN has spotted out agriculture is currently the largest user of water at the global level, accounting for 70% of total withdrawal while the food production and supply chain accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption. Besides, according to the global population dynamic, projected to increase by 2050 up to 9 billion people along with a 70% increase in food production, the resource competition is turning out to become a fundamental issue. To this extent the inter-linkages analysis within the nexus and the role-played by institutions and policies to handle effectively this resources competition is a challenging food for thought. In addition currently discussion on SDGs is taking in consideration all the three dimensions and wellbeing of people.",736
1325,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.1,3.4,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Food insecurity, eating disorders, stress-related metabolic responses increases risk of obesity non-communicable diseases",,,Society at large,,,,,,,23
1326,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.1,16.1,2,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"First, interventions to improve food security could help weaken some of the causes of conflict, including motives that may lead individuals to support or join armed groups or engage in illegal activities. Second, greater food price stability and the recovery of local agricultural and food markets could help vulnerable individuals and households mitigate the impacts of conflict, including by supporting people affected by conflict in regaining access to markets.","(1) livelihood support that addresses the root causes of conflicts and conflict stressors, and that promotes re-engagement in productive economic activities, including cash transfers and social protection; (2) facilitated community-based approaches that help build relationships and social cohesion, improving aspirations, confidence and trust; (3) Interventions that contribute to building the capacity of institutions and local actors, improving governance to deliver equitable services.",Conflict-sensitive and timely interventions aimed at improving food security and nutrition can contribute to sustaining peace.,Society at large,,,,,,,60
1327,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.2,3.1,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Anaemia due to malnutrition increases risk of maternal mortality,,,Society at large - especially women,,,The 'most recent' estimates for 2016 indicate that anaemia affects 33% of women of reproductive age globally (about 613 million women between 15 and 49 years of age),,,"The most recent estimates for 2016 indicate that anaemia affects 33 percent of women of reproductive age globally (about 613 million women between 15 and 49 years of age). In Africa and Asia, the prevalence is highest at over 35 percent (Figure 8). It is lowest in Northern America and Europe, and Oceania (below 20 percent). The global average of the prevalence of anaemia in women of reproductive age increased slightly between 2005 and 2016, although the increase was not statistically significant. It declined from 42 percent to 38 percent in Africa and from 25 percent to 22 percent in Latin America and the Caribbean, although this was offset by slight increases in all other regions. In 2012, the WHA set the target of halving the prevalence of anaemia in women of reproductive age by 2025. Progress so far has clearly been off track.",19
1328,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.2,3.4,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Food insecurity, eating disorders, stress-related metabolic responses increases risk of obesity non-communicable diseases",,,Society at large,,,,,,,23
1329,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,3.2,2.2,3,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Compromised maternal health and nutrition during pregnancy and lactation, inadequate breastfeeding, poor feeding practices, bad hygiene and sanitation all combined leads to highter risk of stunting for the children under 5 years",,,Children under 5 years.,,,2016: 155 million children under five years suffer from stunted growth. ,Possible solutions on p. 17,,"The prevalence of stunting is currently highest in Eastern Africa, Middle Africa, Western Africa, Southern Asia and Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand), where more than 30 percent of children under five are too short for their age. From 2005 to 2016, most regions achieved reductions in stunting, with the rate of improvement fastest in Asia (particularly Eastern and Central Asia) and Latin America and the Caribbean. The prevalence of stunting also declined in all subregions in Africa, but at a much slower rate. In fact, the rate of decline in stunting in Africa has not kept pace with population increases, resulting in a higher number of stunted children overall. In absolute terms, Africa is the only region where the number of stunted children has risen, with Western Africa accounting for half of this increase. The vast majority of stunted children live in Asia (87 million) and Africa (59 million) (Figure 4).",17
1330,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,3.8,2.2,3,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Universal health coverage would reduce cases of anaemia,,,Society at large - especially women,,,,See p. 21 for possible solutions,,,19
1331,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,6.2,2.2,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Compromised maternal health and nutrition during pregnancy and lactation, inadequate breastfeeding, poor feeding practices, bad hygiene and sanitation all combined leads to highter risk of stunting for the children under 5 years",,,Children under 5 years.,,,2016: 155 million children under five years suffer from stunted growth. ,Possible solutions on p. 17,,"The prevalence of stunting is currently highest in Eastern Africa, Middle Africa, Western Africa, Southern Asia and Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand), where more than 30 percent of children under five are too short for their age. From 2005 to 2016, most regions achieved reductions in stunting, with the rate of improvement fastest in Asia (particularly Eastern and Central Asia) and Latin America and the Caribbean. The prevalence of stunting also declined in all subregions in Africa, but at a much slower rate. In fact, the rate of decline in stunting in Africa has not kept pace with population increases, resulting in a higher number of stunted children overall. In absolute terms, Africa is the only region where the number of stunted children has risen, with Western Africa accounting for half of this increase. The vast majority of stunted children live in Asia (87 million) and Africa (59 million) (Figure 4).",17
1332,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Latin America + Western Asia,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,8.1,2.1,8,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"""Worsening food security conditions have also been observed in more peaceful settings, particularly where economic slowdowns have drained foreign exchange and fiscal revenues. This has affected both food availability by reducing import capacity, and food access owing to more limited fiscal space to protect poor households against rising domestic food prices, as seen for example in parts of Latin America and Western Asia. Costs have risen significantly in countries that typically rely on revenues from oil and other primary commodity exports to finance food imports and subsidies. Lower oil and mineral prices have limited governments’ spending capacity, contributing to slowdowns, stagnation or outright recessions in the real sector of some economies, leading to increased unemployment and declines in incomes. In addition, such economic downturns have reduced fiscal revenue and eroded resources available to sustain subsidies on basic needs and support through social protection programmes.""",The reduced income from exports affects the governments spending capacity negatively leading to unemployment and eroding subsidies on food.,Economy has significance for food security,Consumers experiencing higher food prices (especially countries relying on food import),,,,,,,9
1333,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,12.2,16.1,12,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Competition over land and water has been identified as a potential trigger for conflict, as loss of land and livelihood resources, worsening labour conditions and environmental degradation negatively affect and threaten household and community livelihoods.",,Unsustainable use of natural resources increases conflicts over access to remaining natural resources,Society at large,,,,,,,57
1334,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Eastern and Southern Africa + Southeast Asia,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,13.1,2.1,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,There was a rise in food prices in the countries exposed to El Nino,,The El niño and la niña phenomena have caused a reduction in food availability especially in Eastern and Southern Africa + South Eastern Asia,Consumers in the exposed countries who experience rising food prices,,,,,,,7
1335,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,16.1,2.1,16,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"How exactly conflict affects food security can be difficult to ascertain, and impacts can occur simultaneously and/or with a time lag such that there are compounding effects on food consumption, caring practices and health environments. Conflict impacts can be direct (such as, forced population movements, the destruction of food stocks and productive assets and increased health complications including death) and/or indirect (for example, economic, social and institutional changes).46 Indirect impacts can also include disruptions to food systems and markets, leading to increased food prices or decreased household purchasing power, or access to water and fuel for cooking can be reduced, which negatively affects food preparation, feeding practices and food allocation within the household. Owing to this complexity and the specific contexts, any analysis of the impact of conflict on food security and nutrition and associated health complications necessarily relies on concrete case studies.47",,Conflicts reduce food security,Society at large,,,"A 'recent' study across 20 countries show that armed conflicts reduces the level of GDP per capita by 17.5 percent on average. + On average, 56% of the population in countries affected by conflict live in rurals areas where livelihoods largely depend on agriculture + The number of displaced people worldwide is at an all-time high, as war and persecution continue to rise. Currently, one in every 113 people is now either a refugee, internally displaced, or seeking asylum.",,"This interaction can be split into 16,1 --> 8,1 --> 2,1 and 16,1 --> 2,1 and 16,1 --> 10,7 --> 2,1 and 1,5 --> 16,1 --> 2,1",Several supporting case studies in the chapter,39
1336,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,16.1,5.2,16,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Conflict situations often are characterized by increased sexual violence, mostly targeted at women. Such violence and trauma not only cause direct harm to women, but also tend to affect their ability to support their families.",,Conflicts increase violence against women,Women,,,,,,"All of these are based on casestudies mostly from Africa and the Middle East, but that doesn't mean that the interactions only hold for these regions.",50
1337,"Figueroa, M.J., and S.K. Ribeiro",2013,Energy for road passenger transport and sustainable development: assessing policies and goals interactions being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.1,11.2,7,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,energy security: the dominant role of fossil fuel base technologies in the global transport sector leaves countries and regions that are highly dependent on imported oil and supply from international markets in higher risk when price increases or supply shortages occur,"Many recent studies emphasize that policies that lead transport in a low-carbon pathway need to be made compatible with goals and principles for sustainable development [10–12]. In addition, a number of global scenario [13–19] and comparative policy studies [20,21] have recently examined the type of policies that have greater potential to help achieve a transition of the global transport system into a low-carbon system. Among these global scenario studies the Global Energy Assessment (GEA) normatively examined possible future energy pathways for a radical transformation of the present energy system that meets sustainable development goals, with regards to economic development, urban development equity, health and environmental protection, green house gas emissions, and energy security. ",,,,Strong,"The global transport sector is responsible for 28% of the total final energy demand and the majority of the energy used in transportation — 70% — is utilized in the movement of passengers and goods on roads  The total energy use for passenger and freight transportation is projected to increase for all transport modes and all world regions by 2050. Despite the last decade’s global recession and the resulting reduction of freight and passenger volumes in all  modes, the long-term transport demand is expected to increase so long as the global economy continues to receive the positive feedbacks of international travel and trade  Currently, the world’s vehicle fleet amounts to around 800 million and it is expected to have surpassed 1.2 billion by 2050 [18]. The increases in motorization that are taking a fast pace in growing economies such as China, India and Brazil, are departing from low resent levels [31,32]. Rapid urbanization and mass motorization put further pressure to the more limited growth in supply of infrastructure and services rising urban social, and equity unsustainable con- ditions. ","This review explores a systematic approach to describe interactions documented in the literature, between policies targeting energy use in road passenger transport to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development goals. Essential, uncertain and limited interactions are mapped out as a result, their overview indicates that a full reconciliation between these policies and sustainability goals is not always attainable. The careful alignment and contextual examination of interactions between measures and goals as exemplified in this approach can help inform practical transport energy policy that better match an agenda for sustainable development.",contributing to 13,"This paper offered a systematic approach to assess the interaction of policies for energy in transport with sustainability principles expressed with the Millennium Goals, and reaffirmed in Rio+20 and other major assessment studies such as the Global Energy ssessment. Decision-makers can find practical value in the knowledge it offers to understand interactions and the possibility of multiple vistas. The approach has also limits: it is a resource intensive exercise that requires extensive documentation and up-to-date contextual knowledge, capabilities to gather facts and to explain the observed interactions. The approach can be potentially susceptible to misuse biasing results to favor a particular decision. ",155
1338,"Figueroa, M.J., and S.K. Ribeiro",2013,Energy for road passenger transport and sustainable development: assessing policies and goals interactions being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.1,11.2,7,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Providing efficient, low-carbon and affordable transportation services that meet the mobility needs of the population and attend to energy for sustainable development principles continues to be the principal and most difficult transport challenge globally. Development that is sustainable requires an operational, efficient and safe transportation system fueled by clean, lowcarbon, secure and affordable energy. The energy used in road passenger transport enables social and economic development and is the target of interventions to fight pressing urban environmental problems, energy security concerns and dangerous climate change","Many recent studies emphasize that policies that lead transport in a low-carbon pathway need to be made compatible with goals and principles for sustainable development [10–12]. In addition, a number of global scenario [13–19] and comparative policy studies [20,21] have recently examined the type of policies that have greater potential to help achieve a transition of the global transport system into a low-carbon system. Among these global scenario studies the Global Energy Assessment (GEA) normatively examined possible future energy pathways for a radical transformation of the present energy system that meets sustainable development goals, with regards to economic development, urban development equity, health and environmental protection, green house gas emissions, and energy security. ",,,,Strong,"The global transport sector is responsible for 28% of the total final energy demand and the majority of the energy used in transportation — 70% — is utilized in the movement of passengers and goods on roads  The total energy use for passenger and freight transportation is projected to increase for all transport modes and all world regions by 2050. Despite the last decade’s global recession and the resulting reduction of freight and passenger volumes in all  modes, the long-term transport demand is expected to increase so long as the global economy continues to receive the positive feedbacks of international travel and trade  Currently, the world’s vehicle fleet amounts to around 800 million and it is expected to have surpassed 1.2 billion by 2050. The increases in motorization that are taking a fast pace in growing economies such as China, India and Brazil, are departing from low resent levels. Rapid urbanization and mass motorization put further pressure to the more limited growth in supply of infrastructure and services rising urban social, and equity unsustainable conditions. ","This review explores a systematic approach to describe interactions documented in the literature, between policies targeting energy use in road passenger transport to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development goals. Essential, uncertain and limited interactions are mapped out as a result, their overview indicates that a full reconciliation between these policies and sustainability goals is not always attainable. The careful alignment and contextual examination of interactions between measures and goals as exemplified in this approach can help inform practical transport energy policy that better match an agenda for sustainable development.",contributing to 13,"This paper offered a systematic approach to assess the interaction of policies for energy in transport with sustainability principles expressed with the Millennium Goals, and reaffirmed in Rio+20 and other major assessment studies such as the Global Energy ssessment. Decision-makers can find practical value in the knowledge it offers to understand interactions and the possibility of multiple vistas. The approach has also limits: it is a resource intensive exercise that requires extensive documentation and up-to-date contextual knowledge, capabilities to gather facts and to explain the observed interactions. The approach can be potentially susceptible to misuse biasing results to favor a particular decision. ","152, 159"
1339,"Figueroa, M.J., and S.K. Ribeiro",2013,Energy for road passenger transport and sustainable development: assessing policies and goals interactions being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.2,3.9,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Road passenger transport and the rapid and long range distance movement of passengers are facilitated by a higher ratio of vehicles to users, easy access to fuel markets, affordable prices, and the high energy intensity that characterize fossil fuels. The implications in terms of total energy consumption, air pollution, traffic congestion and safety, noise, ecosystem impacts and greenhouse gas emissions are large. Ecosystem impacts are largely associated to the expansion of urban and transport systems land consuming patterns (sprawl) [33] that intensify the travel distance and reliance on personal motorized modes for transport. Further ecosystem impacts are attributed to the devel- opment of alternative fuels such in the case of develop- ment of biofuels","Many recent studies emphasize that policies that lead transport in a low-carbon pathway need to be made compatible with goals and principles for sustainable development [10–12]. In addition, a number of global scenario [13–19] and comparative policy studies [20,21] have recently examined the type of policies that have greater potential to help achieve a transition of the global transport system into a low-carbon system. Among these global scenario studies the Global Energy Assessment (GEA) normatively examined possible future energy pathways for a radical transformation of the present energy system that meets sustainable development goals, with regards to economic development, urban development equity, health and environmental protection, green house gas emissions, and energy security. ",,,,Strong,"The global transport sector is responsible for 28% of the total final energy demand and the majority of the energy used in transportation — 70% — is utilized in the movement of passengers and goods on roads  The total energy use for passenger and freight transportation is projected to increase for all transport modes and all world regions by 2050. Despite the last decade’s global recession and the resulting reduction of freight and passenger volumes in all  modes, the long-term transport demand is expected to increase so long as the global economy continues to receive the positive feedbacks of international travel and trade  Currently, the world’s vehicle fleet amounts to around 800 million and it is expected to have surpassed 1.2 billion by 2050 [18]. The increases in motorization that are taking a fast pace in growing economies such as China, India and Brazil, are departing from low resent levels [31,32]. Rapid urbanization and mass motorization put further pressure to the more limited growth in supply of infrastructure and services rising urban social, and equity unsustainable con- ditions. ","This review explores a systematic approach to describe interactions documented in the literature, between policies targeting energy use in road passenger transport to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development goals. Essential, uncertain and limited interactions are mapped out as a result, their overview indicates that a full reconciliation between these policies and sustainability goals is not always attainable. The careful alignment and contextual examination of interactions between measures and goals as exemplified in this approach can help inform practical transport energy policy that better match an agenda for sustainable development.",,"This paper offered a systematic approach to assess the interaction of policies for energy in transport with sustainability principles expressed with the Millennium Goals, and reaffirmed in Rio+20 and other major assessment studies such as the Global Energy ssessment. Decision-makers can find practical value in the knowledge it offers to understand interactions and the possibility of multiple vistas. The approach has also limits: it is a resource intensive exercise that requires extensive documentation and up-to-date contextual knowledge, capabilities to gather facts and to explain the observed interactions. The approach can be potentially susceptible to misuse biasing results to favor a particular decision. ",155
