,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
402,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,3.5,3.6,3,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Alcohol consumption has been linked to the incidence of road traffic-related deaths and injuries. Enforcing road safety regulations will thus strengthening the prevention of harmful use of alcohol and improve road safety,,,,,,,,,,xiii
403,ECA,2017,Africa Sustainable Development Report - Tracking Progress on Agenda 2063 and the SDGs,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,9.5,1.2,9,1,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Advances in scientific and technological knowledge through research are critical to eradicating poverty and promoting home-grown economic and social development. ,,,,,,"Currently, Africa as a region spends less than half of 1 per cent of its GDP on research and development, compared with more than 1 per cent in the developing region as a whole and 2 per cent in the developed regions.",,,,
404,ECA,2017,Background paper on building resilient infrastructure and promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialization and innovation,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,17.3,9.5,17,9,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Financial resources are needed to strengthen R&D,,,,financial resources need to be prioritized,Medium,,,,,4
405,ECA,2017,"Background paper on conservation and sustainable use of the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development",Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,14.2,11.3,14,11,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,sustainable management of coastal ecosystems including strengthening resilience will enhance sustainable urbanization and capacities for human settlement planning and management,There is a need for development of an ocean governance strategy in Africa ,,,,,"50% of the world's population lives within 60 kilometres of an ocean or sea (ECA, Africa's Blue Economy: a policy handbook)",,,,1
406,ECA,2017,"Background paper on conservation and sustainable use of the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development",Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,,,17,14,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"strengthened data collection, investment promotion and capacity building at national and local level will improve management of marine resources ","There is a need for development of an ocean governance strategy in Africa, especially in terms of incorporating scientific research outcomes into policy frameworks to create informed decision-making","Ocean research is necessary in order to predict the consequences of change, design mitigation strategies and guide adaptation. ",,,,Global Ocean commission (2014) identified that gaps in governance frameworks undermine ocean governance. Individual countries lacks funds and has insufficient technical and human capacity to combat the overexploitation. ,"African countries are implementing the 1995 Global Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine Environment from Land-based Activities. A number of countries in Africa (Mauritius, Seychelles and SA) have established blue/ocean economy ministries and departments",reducing fatalities of impoverished fishermen. Knowledge and improved management of marine resources is needed to enhance the blue economy at the national and regional level,"Illigal, unreported and unregulated acitivies are the primary drivers of overexploitation",2
407,ECA,2017,Background paper on ending hunger and achieving food security in Africa,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,17.1,2.3,17,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Agricultural producer support is declining slowly worldwide paving the way for more equitable global trade in agriculture.,Negotiation of trade agreements in WTO,,,Farmers who rely on producer support (primarily in developed countries),Medium,"Figure 13 - Producer support, percentage of gross farm receipts Figure 14 - Porducer support (USD million)",,,,5
408,ECA,2017,Background paper on ending hunger and achieving food security in Africa,Global Assessment,Africa,Regional,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,,,17,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"To facilitate the effective implementation of the Goals, each national government should establish the right institutional framework.",Implementing instutional framework and capacity building to collect and analyze data,,,,Strong,,,,,7
409,ECA,2017,Background paper on the sub-theme: “Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all”,Global Assessment,Africa,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,Interaction impact develops in real time,,,17,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Weak data systems and data gaps in some member States in the areas of demography and certain health indicators pose serious challenges for the effective monitoring and evaluation of progress,Strong and robust monitoring and evaluation frameworks should be put in place and supported by credible data to inform analysis and the design and implementation of policy.,,,,Strong,,,,,4
410,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,5,1,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Several SDGs can be classified as social objectives, which in a sense are key stepping stones on the road to human wellbeing. These goals—poverty reduction (Goal 1), health (Goal 3), education (Goal 4), gender (Goal 5), and inequality (Goal 10)—can be considered to set a minimum standard for human wellbeing. There may be other kinds of social objectives, but these are the ones that are prioritized in the SDGs. These social objectives are also related to each other in complex cause-effect chains. For example, inequality (Goal 10) may be one cause of poverty (Goal 1), poor health (Goal 3), and insufficient education (Goal 4), and gender equality (Goal 5) can also be considered as a means to achieving all of the other SDGs.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The SDGs can be classified into six main groups (functions) based on these ideas, as illustrated in Table 4. The linkages among the goals are illustrated visually in Figure 1 (page 962). Thus, the environment is the foundation of the economy, social objectives, and ultimately, human wellbeing. The environment is the source of resources. Resources are the raw material for the economy. The economy provides goods and services that serve social objectives. Education and health are necessary for people to have the ability to extract resources from the environment and transform them through the economy. Governance refers to institutions and decision-making processes that govern how resources are extracted from the environment, how resources are transformed by the economy, how the results of the economy are transformed to meet social objectives, and how education and health are managed.",13
411,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,5,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Several SDGs can be classified as social objectives, which in a sense are key stepping stones on the road to human wellbeing. These goals—poverty reduction (Goal 1), health (Goal 3), education (Goal 4), gender (Goal 5), and inequality (Goal 10)—can be considered to set a minimum standard for human wellbeing. There may be other kinds of social objectives, but these are the ones that are prioritized in the SDGs. These social objectives are also related to each other in complex cause-effect chains. For example, inequality (Goal 10) may be one cause of poverty (Goal 1), poor health (Goal 3), and insufficient education (Goal 4), and gender equality (Goal 5) can also be considered as a means to achieving all of the other SDGs.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The SDGs can be classified into six main groups (functions) based on these ideas, as illustrated in Table 4. The linkages among the goals are illustrated visually in Figure 1 (page 962). Thus, the environment is the foundation of the economy, social objectives, and ultimately, human wellbeing. The environment is the source of resources. Resources are the raw material for the economy. The economy provides goods and services that serve social objectives. Education and health are necessary for people to have the ability to extract resources from the environment and transform them through the economy. Governance refers to institutions and decision-making processes that govern how resources are extracted from the environment, how resources are transformed by the economy, how the results of the economy are transformed to meet social objectives, and how education and health are managed.",13
412,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,5,4,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Several SDGs can be classified as social objectives, which in a sense are key stepping stones on the road to human wellbeing. These goals—poverty reduction (Goal 1), health (Goal 3), education (Goal 4), gender (Goal 5), and inequality (Goal 10)—can be considered to set a minimum standard for human wellbeing. There may be other kinds of social objectives, but these are the ones that are prioritized in the SDGs. These social objectives are also related to each other in complex cause-effect chains. For example, inequality (Goal 10) may be one cause of poverty (Goal 1), poor health (Goal 3), and insufficient education (Goal 4), and gender equality (Goal 5) can also be considered as a means to achieving all of the other SDGs.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The SDGs can be classified into six main groups (functions) based on these ideas, as illustrated in Table 4. The linkages among the goals are illustrated visually in Figure 1 (page 962). Thus, the environment is the foundation of the economy, social objectives, and ultimately, human wellbeing. The environment is the source of resources. Resources are the raw material for the economy. The economy provides goods and services that serve social objectives. Education and health are necessary for people to have the ability to extract resources from the environment and transform them through the economy. Governance refers to institutions and decision-making processes that govern how resources are extracted from the environment, how resources are transformed by the economy, how the results of the economy are transformed to meet social objectives, and how education and health are managed.",13
413,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,5,10,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Several SDGs can be classified as social objectives, which in a sense are key stepping stones on the road to human wellbeing. These goals—poverty reduction (Goal 1), health (Goal 3), education (Goal 4), gender (Goal 5), and inequality (Goal 10)—can be considered to set a minimum standard for human wellbeing. There may be other kinds of social objectives, but these are the ones that are prioritized in the SDGs. These social objectives are also related to each other in complex cause-effect chains. For example, inequality (Goal 10) may be one cause of poverty (Goal 1), poor health (Goal 3), and insufficient education (Goal 4), and gender equality (Goal 5) can also be considered as a means to achieving all of the other SDGs.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The SDGs can be classified into six main groups (functions) based on these ideas, as illustrated in Table 4. The linkages among the goals are illustrated visually in Figure 1 (page 962). Thus, the environment is the foundation of the economy, social objectives, and ultimately, human wellbeing. The environment is the source of resources. Resources are the raw material for the economy. The economy provides goods and services that serve social objectives. Education and health are necessary for people to have the ability to extract resources from the environment and transform them through the economy. Governance refers to institutions and decision-making processes that govern how resources are extracted from the environment, how resources are transformed by the economy, how the results of the economy are transformed to meet social objectives, and how education and health are managed.",13
414,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,1,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,water (Goal 6) produces energy and is a means needed for industrial production as well as reducing poverty and enhancing health.,,,,,Strong,,,,,13
415,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"So-called “nexus” studies conduct more in-depth analysis of linkages between a smaller number of areas. A prominent example is the “Food-Water-Energy Nexus” [29,33–36] The basic idea behind this concept is that significant amounts of energy are needed to access water as well as produce food, while significant amounts of water are needed to produce energy and food. In particular, water shortages are beginning to threaten not only food but also energy production and energy security. In the future, more and more energy may be needed to provide water if desalination becomes more widely used. ",,,,,Strong,,"Therefore, energy, water, and food need to be managed in a more integrated way, also taking into consideration a range of related factors such as land availability, soil health, and impacts on biodiversity [33–36]. Understanding these linkages requires analytical capability, and managing them well requires sufficient capacity for cross-sectoral planning, implementation, and monitoring. Le Blanc [29] observes that nexus studies have found a large number of linkages between various areas, and most are not included in SDG targets.",,"The paper emphasizes that greater focus on the interlinkages and synergies among goals could enhance the effectiveness of implementation and also to some extent reduce the related costs. Therefore, SDGs should be implemented as a mutually supporting package to maximize the synergies and minimize trade-offs among the goals. “Prioritizing” some SDGs while neglecting others could unnecessarily raise costs and reduce effectiveness, especially when considering a longer timeframe, including development after 2030—the end-year of the SDGs. Understanding the goals as means could help stakeholders to see the interlinkages, synergies, and related potential to reduce costs, and incentivize them to adopt a more integrated perspective and foster cooperation.",11
416,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,water (Goal 6) produces energy and is a means needed for industrial production as well as reducing poverty and enhancing health.,,,,,Strong,,,,,13
417,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"So-called “nexus” studies conduct more in-depth analysis of linkages between a smaller number of areas. A prominent example is the “Food-Water-Energy Nexus” [29,33–36] The basic idea behind this concept is that significant amounts of energy are needed to access water as well as produce food, while significant amounts of water are needed to produce energy and food. In particular, water shortages are beginning to threaten not only food but also energy production and energy security. In the future, more and more energy may be needed to provide water if desalination becomes more widely used. ",,,,,Strong,,"Therefore, energy, water, and food need to be managed in a more integrated way, also taking into consideration a range of related factors such as land availability, soil health, and impacts on biodiversity [33–36]. Understanding these linkages requires analytical capability, and managing them well requires sufficient capacity for cross-sectoral planning, implementation, and monitoring. Le Blanc [29] observes that nexus studies have found a large number of linkages between various areas, and most are not included in SDG targets.",,"The paper emphasizes that greater focus on the interlinkages and synergies among goals could enhance the effectiveness of implementation and also to some extent reduce the related costs. Therefore, SDGs should be implemented as a mutually supporting package to maximize the synergies and minimize trade-offs among the goals. “Prioritizing” some SDGs while neglecting others could unnecessarily raise costs and reduce effectiveness, especially when considering a longer timeframe, including development after 2030—the end-year of the SDGs. Understanding the goals as means could help stakeholders to see the interlinkages, synergies, and related potential to reduce costs, and incentivize them to adopt a more integrated perspective and foster cooperation.",11
418,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,9,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,water (Goal 6) produces energy and is a means needed for industrial production as well as reducing poverty and enhancing health.,,,,,Strong,,,,,13
419,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"So-called “nexus” studies conduct more in-depth analysis of linkages between a smaller number of areas. A prominent example is the “Food-Water-Energy Nexus” [29,33–36] The basic idea behind this concept is that significant amounts of energy are needed to access water as well as produce food, while significant amounts of water are needed to produce energy and food. In particular, water shortages are beginning to threaten not only food but also energy production and energy security. In the future, more and more energy may be needed to provide water if desalination becomes more widely used. ",,,,,Strong,,"Therefore, energy, water, and food need to be managed in a more integrated way, also taking into consideration a range of related factors such as land availability, soil health, and impacts on biodiversity [33–36]. Understanding these linkages requires analytical capability, and managing them well requires sufficient capacity for cross-sectoral planning, implementation, and monitoring. Le Blanc [29] observes that nexus studies have found a large number of linkages between various areas, and most are not included in SDG targets.",,"The paper emphasizes that greater focus on the interlinkages and synergies among goals could enhance the effectiveness of implementation and also to some extent reduce the related costs. Therefore, SDGs should be implemented as a mutually supporting package to maximize the synergies and minimize trade-offs among the goals. “Prioritizing” some SDGs while neglecting others could unnecessarily raise costs and reduce effectiveness, especially when considering a longer timeframe, including development after 2030—the end-year of the SDGs. Understanding the goals as means could help stakeholders to see the interlinkages, synergies, and related potential to reduce costs, and incentivize them to adopt a more integrated perspective and foster cooperation.",11
420,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,1,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Several SDGs can be classified as social objectives, which in a sense are key stepping stones on the road to human wellbeing. These goals—poverty reduction (Goal 1), health (Goal 3), education (Goal 4), gender (Goal 5), and inequality (Goal 10)—can be considered to set a minimum standard for human wellbeing. There may be other kinds of social objectives, but these are the ones that are prioritized in the SDGs. These social objectives are also related to each other in complex cause-effect chains. For example, inequality (Goal 10) may be one cause of poverty (Goal 1), poor health (Goal 3), and insufficient education (Goal 4), and gender equality (Goal 5) can also be considered as a means to achieving all of the other SDGs.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The SDGs can be classified into six main groups (functions) based on these ideas, as illustrated in Table 4. The linkages among the goals are illustrated visually in Figure 1 (page 962). Thus, the environment is the foundation of the economy, social objectives, and ultimately, human wellbeing. The environment is the source of resources. Resources are the raw material for the economy. The economy provides goods and services that serve social objectives. Education and health are necessary for people to have the ability to extract resources from the environment and transform them through the economy. Governance refers to institutions and decision-making processes that govern how resources are extracted from the environment, how resources are transformed by the economy, how the results of the economy are transformed to meet social objectives, and how education and health are managed.",13
421,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Several SDGs can be classified as social objectives, which in a sense are key stepping stones on the road to human wellbeing. These goals—poverty reduction (Goal 1), health (Goal 3), education (Goal 4), gender (Goal 5), and inequality (Goal 10)—can be considered to set a minimum standard for human wellbeing. There may be other kinds of social objectives, but these are the ones that are prioritized in the SDGs. These social objectives are also related to each other in complex cause-effect chains. For example, inequality (Goal 10) may be one cause of poverty (Goal 1), poor health (Goal 3), and insufficient education (Goal 4), and gender equality (Goal 5) can also be considered as a means to achieving all of the other SDGs.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The SDGs can be classified into six main groups (functions) based on these ideas, as illustrated in Table 4. The linkages among the goals are illustrated visually in Figure 1 (page 962). Thus, the environment is the foundation of the economy, social objectives, and ultimately, human wellbeing. The environment is the source of resources. Resources are the raw material for the economy. The economy provides goods and services that serve social objectives. Education and health are necessary for people to have the ability to extract resources from the environment and transform them through the economy. Governance refers to institutions and decision-making processes that govern how resources are extracted from the environment, how resources are transformed by the economy, how the results of the economy are transformed to meet social objectives, and how education and health are managed.",13
422,"Elder, M. et al.",2016,An Optimistic Analysis of the Means of Implementation for Sustainable Development Goals: Thinking about Goals as Means,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,4,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Several SDGs can be classified as social objectives, which in a sense are key stepping stones on the road to human wellbeing. These goals—poverty reduction (Goal 1), health (Goal 3), education (Goal 4), gender (Goal 5), and inequality (Goal 10)—can be considered to set a minimum standard for human wellbeing. There may be other kinds of social objectives, but these are the ones that are prioritized in the SDGs. These social objectives are also related to each other in complex cause-effect chains. For example, inequality (Goal 10) may be one cause of poverty (Goal 1), poor health (Goal 3), and insufficient education (Goal 4), and gender equality (Goal 5) can also be considered as a means to achieving all of the other SDGs.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The SDGs can be classified into six main groups (functions) based on these ideas, as illustrated in Table 4. The linkages among the goals are illustrated visually in Figure 1 (page 962). Thus, the environment is the foundation of the economy, social objectives, and ultimately, human wellbeing. The environment is the source of resources. Resources are the raw material for the economy. The economy provides goods and services that serve social objectives. Education and health are necessary for people to have the ability to extract resources from the environment and transform them through the economy. Governance refers to institutions and decision-making processes that govern how resources are extracted from the environment, how resources are transformed by the economy, how the results of the economy are transformed to meet social objectives, and how education and health are managed.",13
423,ESCAP,2016,Water markets in Asia,Global Assessment,the Asia Pacific region,Regional,Developing,,6.4,8.1,6,8,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Increasing water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity have the potential to create economic growth,"National governments must make sustainable advancements in water, wastewater, and sanitation management a high level policy priority as essential prerequisites for sustainable development",,,,Strong,,,,,44
424,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.2,3.4,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Obesity increases the risk of non-communicable diseases later in life,,,Society at large,,,"Worldwide, an estimated 41 million children under five were considered obese.",,,,18
425,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.2,8.2,2,8,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Anaemia due to malnutrition reduces the possible participation of women in the workforce,,,Society at large - especially women,,,,,,,19
426,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,2.2,8.2,2,8,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,The obesity epidemic puts financial strains on the healthcare systems and results in lost productivity of the the workforce,,,Society at large,,,"In 2014 more than 600 million adults were obese, equal to about 13% of the worlds population.",,,"Worldwide, an estimated 41 million children (about 6 percent) under five were considered overweight in 2016, up from 5 percent in 2005 (Figure 6). While this may seem a small increase, most subregions show an upward trend. In 2016, the prevalence of childhood overweight reached almost 12 percent in Southern Africa, 11 percent in Central Asia, 10 percent in Northern Africa, 8 percent in Northern America, and 7 percent in South-Eastern Asia and South America. Only Western Africa, South America and Eastern Asia recorded slight declines between 2005 and 2016. In Eastern Africa, the prevalence remained constant at 4.7 percent. All other regions registered increases in the prevalence of childhood overweight, the fastest rising being in South-Eastern Asia and Oceania.",17
427,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global/Southern Asia (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,3.2,2.2,3,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Low birth weight, inadequate diet, poor care practices and infections lead to increased risk of wasting.",,,Children under 5 years,,,"In 2016, wasting affected 7.7% (51.7 million) of children under five years of age worldwide.",,,"About 17 million children suffered from severe wasting. Southern Asia stands out with a high prevalence of 15.4 percent – well above that of any other subregion. At 8.9 percent, South-Eastern Asia is also far off target. While the prevalence is somewhat lower in Africa, it still stands above the global nutrition target.",17
428,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,4.1,2.2,4,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Increased educational level among mothers can reduce malnutrition,,,Society at large,,,,,,Possible reconsideration of descriptional adequacy,23
429,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global (see comments),Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,5.6,2.2,5,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Access to sexual and reproductive healthcare would reduce cases of anaemia,,,Society at large - especially women,,,,See p. 21 for possible solutions,,,19
430,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,6.1,2.2,6,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Better access to clean water and basic sanitaion will reduce malnutrition,,,Society at large,,,,,,Possible reconsideration of descriptional adequacy,23
431,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Africa & Asia,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,15.3,16.1,15,16,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"A study in Asia and Africa from 1989 to 2014 shows that the risk of conflict increases for each additional year of growing-season drought and is even more pronounced for low-development countries (Figure 21). For the average politically excluded group, going from zero to five consecutive years of drought during the local growing season increases the estimated likelihood of conflict incidence from 12 percent to 15 percent, other things being equal. With climate change, the risk of extreme weather-related events increases as does the variability in rainfall. If left unaddressed, climate change should therefore be expected to have an increasing impact on the risk of conflict outbreaks.",,Drought increases the risk of conflict,Society at large,,,,,,,56
432,FAO,2017,The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World: Building Resilience for Peace and Food Security,Global Assessment,Global,Local and Global,,Interaction impact develops in real time,16.1,5.2,16,5,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"""However, more detailed case study-based analyses confirm that poverty, hunger and food insecurity, together with a highly unequal distribution of income, land and other material goods, can create feelings of anger, hopelessness, unfairness and a lack of social justice among sectors of the population."" + ""At the individual level, studies have shown that people might choose to participate in and support armed groups in the hope of gaining financially, particularly if they have lost trust in state support mechanisms""",,"Food insecurity and undernutrition as such have not been found to be the sole causes of conflict, but they may compound other grievances or political, social or economic factors that trigger conflict. ",Society at large,,,,p. 60 to 72 describe how better food management could decrease risk of conflict,"A vicious circle can emerge when conflict leads to a worsening of the food security and nutrition situation, which in turn enhances the risk of deepening and prolonging the conflict.85",,52
433,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,13.2,2,13,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Deforestation and agriculture are weakening land carbon sinks: implies importance of sustainable land use,,,,,,,,,,2
434,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,13.2,14.2,13,14,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"By the end of the century, global average sea levels are projected to rise about one metre, presenting substantial challenges for coastal protection in places ranging from Florida to Bangladesh 17. If emissions continue unabated, meltwater from Greenland and Antarctica will, eventually, dominate sea-level rise. These ice sheets are estimated to lead to more than two metres of sea-level rise per degree of global warming 18.",,,,,,The ocean stores 93% of the additional heat trapped in the climate system by greenhouse gases emitted by human activities 15. The resulting warmer waters expand causing sea levels to rise. Melting glaciers and ice sheets also contribute to sea-level rise.,,,,5
435,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,13.2,14.3,13,14,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Ocean uptake of CO 2 from emissions from human activities is causing the chemistry of the oceans to change. Ocean acidification is occurring at unprecedented rates,,,,,,The last time the pace of ocean acidification came close to current rates was 56 million years ago and coincided with very significant changes in ocean ecosystems that have been described as a major extinction.,,,,5
436,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,13,6,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Furthermore, climate change coupled with population growth and development patterns is increasing stresses on global water resources",,,,,,"By 2050, more than half of the world's population will live in water-stressed areas, and a billion or more will not have sufficient water resources",,13 > 6 > 3,,7
437,"Gerald G. Singha, Andrés M. Cisneros-Montemayor, Wilf Swartz, William Cheung, J. Adam Guy, Tiff-Annie Kenny, Chris J. McOwen, Rebecca Asch, Jan Laurens Geffert, Colette C.C. Wabnitz, Rashid Sumaila, Quentin Hanich, Yoshitaka Ota",2017,A rapid assessment of co-benefits and trade-offs among Sustainable Development Goals,Other reports and grey literature,,Local,,,14.1,2.2,14,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Eliminating marine pollution (SDG 14.1) can contribute to eliminating malnutrition (SDG 2.2) by increasing the availability of marine resources for food, though ending malnutrition can be achieved without reducing marine pollution and reducing marine pollution may not have any effects on malnutrition",Co-benefit-optional-context-dependent,,,,,,,,,3
438,"Gerald G. Singha, Andrés M. Cisneros-Montemayor, Wilf Swartz, William Cheung, J. Adam Guy, Tiff-Annie Kenny, Chris J. McOwen, Rebecca Asch, Jan Laurens Geffert, Colette C.C. Wabnitz, Rashid Sumaila, Quentin Hanich, Yoshitaka Ota",2017,A rapid assessment of co-benefits and trade-offs among Sustainable Development Goals,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.2,2.2,14,2,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Increasing marine resources availability through marine restoration (SDG 14.2) can invariably help end malnutrition (SDG 2.2), but there are other strategies to can end malnutrition without relying on marine restoration.",Co-benefit-optional-context-independent,,,,,,,,,3
439,"Giupponi, C., and A.K. Gain",2017,"Integrated spatial assessment of the water, energy and food dimensions of the Sustainable Development Goals.",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.19,6.4,17,6,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"aim of this study was to develop an approach for quantitative assessment of water, energy and food security at the global scale in a holistic manner. Based on the recent acquisitions of the literature about sustainable water management, we developed upon the concept of Water–Energy–Food (WEF) Security Nexus, to ropose a set of indicators for comprehensive assessment of water resources. We selected spatial indicators with specific reference to the SDGs, recently approved by the UN General Assembly (25 September 2015), and we propose a method to aggregate them in a single WEF security index, by means of a multi-criteria approach, which allows to take intoaccount different decisional attitudes of policy makers. The main ambition is to provide a transparent and reproducible GIS-based approach to assess the state of WEF spatial indicators, which could be adopted in the future to monitor the progresses in meeting the SDGs, allowing to compare different geographical areas and highlighting synergies and conflicts amongst the three dimensions of the WEF Nexus. ",,,,,Strong,"Aggregating water, energy and food securities produces the WEF Security Index. Maps for the two basins (Ganges–Brahmaputra–Meghna (GBM) and the Po river basins, obtained with the Simple Additive Weighting method show that in both basins, the WEF Security Index is relatively higher in mountain areas, where population is scarce and water resources are abundant. While in the Po area the discontinuity due to national boundaries is not evident, the GBM map shows evident discontinuity between China and the other countries due to the better performance of indicators based upon country polygons in several indicator maps.  Compared to other regions of the world, the WEF Security index in the GBM river basin is once more lower than the global average (0.40 vs. 0.45), while the WEF Security Index in Po Basin is remarkably higher (0.55).   The GBM system is the third largest river basin in the world after the Amazon and Congo, covering over 1.7 M km2. Connecting the Himalayas to the Bay of Bengal, the river basin is shared between India (64 %), China (18 %), Nepal (9 %), Bangladesh (7 %) and Bhutan (3 %). The world’s highest population density is supported by GBM water resources, which contribute to the survival of about 630 million people.  The Po River is the largest and in many respects the most important Italian river, with a basin extending over 71,000 km2 and covering 25 % of Italy, but it comprises also minor parts of Swiss and France in the upper Alpine area to the north–west. The Po River collects water discharged from the Alps and the Apennines and ends in the Adriatic Sea, a northern branch of the Mediterranean. Agriculture covers approximately one-half of the basin, but the basin includes also the economically most important activities in the secondary and tertiary sectors, with 17 million inhabitants and producing 40 % of the Italian GDP  water security is relatively low in the GBM region, with an average value of 0.36, compared to a global average of 0.44. The Water Security Index in the Po Basin is relatively higher, with an average value of 0.48  energy security shows much greater gaps in the GBM Basin with respect to the global average and the situation in the Po Basin. The average Energy Security Index (SAW method) is 0.21, compared to the global value of 0.35 and the average of the European basin of 0.46  The results for the Food Security Index in the Asian area are above the global average (0.29 and 0.24, respectively). The average food supply (mainly rice) is very high in this region. However, the region also contains the largest number of the world’s poor. The income gap between the rich and the poor is very high in this region. The fpoverty indicator shows an average value of 0.37 in the GBM Basin, while it is everywhere at the maximum value in the Po Basin (no population living under $2/day purchasing power parity). Diet diversification and protein quality in daily-consumed foods is very low (average values for fdietdiv is 0.46, with respect to 0.84 in the European basin, while fprotqu averages are 0.35 and 0.85, respectively), which also contributes to the low food security of the region.  ","need clearly emerges for adequate approaches to monitor the evolution of natural resources under the pressure of natural and anthropogenic stressors, to synthesize the information acquired and to support assessment of the sustainability for social and ecological systems at various scales, from local to global. Sustainability assessment should first of all identify proper ways to describe the phenomena to be assessed, and significant measurable variables should then be identified, monitored and processed to transform the acquired data into information that can be used for communication with non-experts.  The results obtained with the proposed approach in two river basins and elsewhere can be used to contribute to the initial assessment of the situation at the time of launching the SDGs. Future efforts are needed to consolidate the selection of raw data to calculate indicator values whenever new information sources will become available. The availability of global spatial data is steadily increasing and the approach proposed can be easily adapted to new spatial data. Probably, the main challenge for monitoring the implementation of the SDGs will lay in the availability of comparable global raw data collected with adequate spatial detail and quality at regular time intervals. The spatial detail is crucial, because country-level averaging and aggregation hide the variability of physical and socio-economic phenomena and thus the hot spot areas of greatest interest for planning the developments towards the SDGs. Remotely sensed data provided by the new constellations of satellites will play a greatest role in providing the spatial and temporal information required.",2 -> 6 2 -> 7 6 -> 2 6 -> 7 7 -> 2 7 -> 6,"study presents a comprehensive indicator-based approach for the assessment of water, energy and food securities, with reference to the SDGs. The main ambition of the proposed approach is to provide a tool to monitor progresses, compare different geographical areas, highlight synergies and conflicts amongst and within the three dimensions of the WEF Nexus, and provide support for improved—more effective—management strategies to meet the goals. The proposed approach has been applied at global level and it is demonstrated by extracting the results in two river basins: the Ganges–Brahmaputra–Meghna (GBM) River Basin in Asia and the Po River Basin in Europe",1882
440,"Grant M., Huggett C., Willetts J. & Wilbur J.",2017,Gender Equality & Goal 6: The Critical Connection,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,5.5,6.2,5,6,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"The lack of water, sanitation and hygiene facilities that meet women and girls’ needs can be largely attributed to the absence of women’s participation in decision-making and planning",,,,,,,,,,1
441,"Grant M., Huggett C., Willetts J. & Wilbur J.",2017,Gender Equality & Goal 6: The Critical Connection,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,,,5,8,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"40 countries have been found to have high or extremely high levels of gender inequality on at least half of the indicators included in the 2015 McKinsey Global Institute report, resulting in economic losses for these countries",,,,,,,,,,8
442,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,7,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"social-ecological drivers of sustainable resource consumption (SDG 12) are a primary focus of Mathez-Stiefel et al (2017, in this issue) (sustainable forest governance in the Andes) and Manral et al (2017, in this issue) (community use of forests for fuel and fodder in the Himalayas), while both papers also address issues of affordable energy (SDG 7) in the form of fuelwood and biomass energy.","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,Strong,,,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",249
443,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,12,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"social-ecological drivers of sustainable resource consumption (SDG 12) are a primary focus of Mathez-Stiefel et al (2017, in this issue) (sustainable forest governance in the Andes) and Manral et al (2017, in this issue) (community use of forests for fuel and fodder in the Himalayas), while both papers also address issues of affordable energy (SDG 7) in the form of fuelwood and biomass energy.","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,Strong,,,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",249
444,"Gulliksen, J.",2017,Institutionalizing human-computer interaction for global health Sustainable Development Goals.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,One of the major sustainability challenges to work with is the issues concerning global health and the impacts new digital technologies may potentially have. Digitalization is changing how health care can be conducted all over the world.,"The Stockholm Declaration for Global Health declared in 2015 urges governments, the global health community, schools and universities, development agencies, donors, policy-makers, research funding agencies, the business sector and civil society to act urgently on existing evidence in the following areas: Linking on-going agendas with new agendas, Creating stronger leadership and accountability, Building capacity and investing in health, Exploiting opportunities and synergies. Digitalization is the biggest societal transformation process that every sector of society currently undergoes, also in  the case for the health-care sector. ","The Internet has provided access to enormous amounts of information about health care, diseases and medical support. It is now quite common that a patient before a visit to the doctor has studied a lot of information about their condition through various Web-based tools. The role of the medical doctor, in times when the patient may be more up to date on recent information about their condition, will change from being the highly valued and undisputed expert to being a person helping the patient interpret and value the obtained information. Mobile technology and easyto- use communication software facilitate remote communication and judgements using these media. A high-quality camera may provide opportunities to take pictures of injuries or skin conditions that can be communicated remotely to allow doctors to judge the injuries and support the patient throughout the treatment. Through the ‘quantified self’ movement patients share enormous amounts of health data and can thus facilitate data science, for example for overviewing and following the spread of a disease. GPS and geographical localizations can aid the doctor in locating the spread of a disease. Digital technologies have many positive aspects but also one needs to be aware of and plan to overcome the challenges related to security, privacy and integrity. We need to closely monitor and adapt liability issues when conducting care online through digital tools. And we also need to investigate usability and accessibility issues to manage a healthy development. Particularly when it comes to medical and health-related applications it is of the utmost importance that the usability is fully functioning as it otherwise could jeopardize people’s lives.",,,Strong,,"digitalization is fundamentally changing society through the development and use of digital technologies. It may have a profound effect on the digital development of every country in the world. But it needs to be developed based on local practices, it needs international support and not to be limited by any technological constraints. There is a need for a responsible design process that involves an understanding of local cultures and traditions for healthy international systems development and digitalization. Particularly digitalization to support global health requires a profound understanding of the users and their context and the entire health-care system and thus requires a user-centred systems design approach.",,"This paper provides an overview of the field of human-computer interaction (HCI) and in what way the field has contributed to international development in different regions of the world. Additionally, it outlines the United Nations’ new sustainability goals from December 2015 and what these could contribute to the development of global health and its relationship to digitalization. Finally, it argues why and how HCI could be adopted and adapted to fit the contextual needs, the need for localization and for the development of new digital innovations.",69
445,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,1.1,13,1,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"SLCP measures can indirectly contribute to target 1.1 to halve poverty, for example, by reducing household expenditures on energy.","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","The poorest and most vulnerable members of society are often the most dependent upon dirty and polluting fuels to supply their basic cooking, heating and lighting needs. They often spend a substantial percentage of their income purchasing these fuels or significant time collecting fuels, reducing time for incomegenerating activities (Goal 8). Measures to address HFCs, to supply modern efficient cooking and heating stoves, and to replace kerosene lamps with modern lighting can improve household incomes by reducing energy costs12 (Goal 3). SLCP measures can also indirectly benefit Goal 1 by reducing vulnerability and near-term impacts of climate change (see Goal 13), improving public health (Goal 3), supporting food security and farm incomes (Goal 2), driving innovation and job creation (see Goal 8), and reducing gender inequalities (Goal 5).",,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,863
446,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,6.3,13,6,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"SLCP measures could help improve water availability and quality for the estimated 663 million people lacking access to improved drinking water sources globally and at least 1.8 billion people without reliable access to potable water26. For example, in areas where sewerage and wastewater treatment infrastructure is already in place, upgrading secondary and tertiary sewerage and waste treatment to collect and utilize methane can support target 6.3 to halve the proportion of untreated wastewater. Using composting toilets may produce much lower methane emissions than pit latrines and can be economically competitive with other methane measures in organic waste sectors","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,An estimated 663 million people lack access to improved drinking water sources globally and at least 1.8 billion people without reliable access to potable water. ,,"SLCP measures can also improve access to water resources by increasing rainfall in regions where drought and water shortages are projected to occur, or where black-carbon-loaded pollution causes a significant shift in the distribution of rainfall towards heavier downpours",The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,866
447,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,1.1,13,1,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"SLCP measures can indirectly contribute to target 1.1 to halve poverty, for example, by reducing household expenditures on energy.","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","The poorest and most vulnerable members of society are often the most dependent upon dirty and polluting fuels to supply their basic cooking, heating and lighting needs. They often spend a substantial percentage of their income purchasing these fuels or significant time collecting fuels, reducing time for incomegenerating activities (Goal 8). Measures to address HFCs, to supply modern efficient cooking and heating stoves, and to replace kerosene lamps with modern lighting can improve household incomes by reducing energy costs12 (Goal 3). SLCP measures can also indirectly benefit Goal 1 by reducing vulnerability and near-term impacts of climate change (see Goal 13), improving public health (Goal 3), supporting food security and farm incomes (Goal 2), driving innovation and job creation (see Goal 8), and reducing gender inequalities (Goal 5).",,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,863
448,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,11.1,13,11,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Clean cooking, heating, and lighting measures and improving appliance efficiency through HFC measures support target 11.1 to ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and upgrade slums by reducing household fuel costs (Goal 1), providing affordable clean energy (Goal 7), and reducing HAP (Goal 3).","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,867
449,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,11.2,13,11,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Measures to reduce diesel engine emissions and support active travel directly support target 11.2 on safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems.","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,867
450,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,4,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"A number of SLCP measures can indirectly support Goal 4 by reducing poverty, HAP, improving public health, and increasing education opportunities. Access to modern energy and lighting is important to support education.","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","Clean cooking and heating measures can increase time for education, particularly for girls (see Goal 5), by reducing time spent collecting fuel; these and HFC measures can also support educational opportunities by reducing household fuel costs and supporting poverty reduction (Goal 1). School-aged children also suffer from a high burden of ill-health due to HAP (Goal 3), which contributes to missed school days (as does ambient air pollution) and lowered educational outcomes. Eliminating kerosene for lighting can indirectly support education by reducing household fuel costs, and also directly by improving the quality of light available for studying23. A typical kerosene wick lantern produces 0.7% of the illumination recommended for reading and as little as 0.1% of the light produced by an equivalent LED lantern",,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,866
451,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,5,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Women and children are often responsible for fuel collection.,"As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","This limits time available to engage in incomegenerating activities (Goals 1 and 8), or in the case of children, to focus on education (Goal 4). This also places them at greater risk of injury or gender-based violence outside the home. For these reasons, measures to provide modern cooking, heating, and lighting can benefit target 5.2 by reducing violence against women and target 5.5 by affording greater opportunities to participate equally in political, economic, and public life",,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,866
452,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,9,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,SLCP measures can contribute to upgrading infrastructure and retrofitting industries to make them sustainable as well as to protecting infrastructure.,"As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","For example, replacing traditional brick kilns and coke ovens results in the adoption of cleaner, more energy efficient, and environmentally friendly technologies (Goal 8). HFC measures can also foster innovation as companies compete to manufacture better products. SLCP measures can also protect infrastructure by slowing the rate of sea-level rise by approximately 18% by 2050. The impact of rising oceans will impact key sectors in coastal and island states, including water resources (Goal 6), agriculture (Goal 2), and infrastructure, and will increase vulnerability of coastal communities (Goal 11) and their citizens (Goal 1) to flooding and storm surges.",,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,867
453,"Hsieh, P.L.",2017,Reassessing the trade–development nexus in international economic law: The paradigm shift in Asia- Pacific regionalism,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.1,8.8,17,8,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,this article offers regulatory reform proposals on how to integrate development assistance and remove trade barriers. Transnational legal harmonization and human rights protection in line with international labor principles are also indispensable. Such reforms will strengthen the best practices for global regionalism and reinvigorate the trade–development connection in the multilateral trading system.,,,,,Strong,,"As a timely case study, this paper focused on the creation of the AEC and its implications for global trade powers such as the United States, China, and Japan. It examined the bloc’s incremental process of liberalization and its balance of power strategy to alter the hub-and-spoke structure. The proposed services trade-oriented development policy encompasses integral components of intra-regional and extra-regional services commitments and transnational schemes on labor mobility. The post-2015 agenda is advised to center on the integration of development assistance and removal of domestic barriers. Moreover, essential actions should include the transnational legal harmonization of mutual recognition and immigration rules, as well as linking the FTAs with human rights protection that incorporates international labor principles. These structural movements would provide the best practices for global regionalism and reinvigorate the trade–development connection in the multilateral trading system.",,"Facing the global development crisis of the Doha Round and international economic law, this article provides the first examination of how the SDGs can be achieved through regional integration. It argues that the emerging New Regional Economic Order (NREO) in multipolar governance will strengthen the ability of the coalition of developing countries to reinforce the legalization of trade–development policy.",321
454,"Hsieh, P.L.",2017,Reassessing the trade–development nexus in international economic law: The paradigm shift in Asia- Pacific regionalism,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.3,17.1,17,17,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,this article offers regulatory reform proposals on how to integrate development assistance and remove trade barriers. Transnational legal harmonization and human rights protection in line with international labor principles are also indispensable. Such reforms will strengthen the best practices for global regionalism and reinvigorate the trade–development connection in the multilateral trading system.,,,,,Strong,,"As a timely case study, this paper focused on the creation of the AEC and its implications for global trade powers such as the United States, China, and Japan. It examined the bloc’s incremental process of liberalization and its balance of power strategy to alter the hub-and-spoke structure. The proposed services trade-oriented development policy encompasses integral components of intra-regional and extra-regional services commitments and transnational schemes on labor mobility. The post-2015 agenda is advised to center on the integration of development assistance and removal of domestic barriers. Moreover, essential actions should include the transnational legal harmonization of mutual recognition and immigration rules, as well as linking the FTAs with human rights protection that incorporates international labor principles. These structural movements would provide the best practices for global regionalism and reinvigorate the trade–development connection in the multilateral trading system.",,"Facing the global development crisis of the Doha Round and international economic law, this article provides the first examination of how the SDGs can be achieved through regional integration. It argues that the emerging New Regional Economic Order (NREO) in multipolar governance will strengthen the ability of the coalition of developing countries to reinforce the legalization of trade–development policy.",321
455,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,3.1,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
456,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,3.2,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
457,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,3.3,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
458,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,3.1,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
459,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,3.2,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
460,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,3.3,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
461,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,3.3,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
462,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,7.1,2,7,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Increasing food productivity and farmers’ revenues may enable the increase of renewable energy in the global energy mix via biofuel production. This may also increase access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services",,,,,,,,,,59
463,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,7.2,2,7,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Increasing food productivity and farmers’ revenues may enable the increase of renewable energy in the global energy mix via biofuel production. This may also increase access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services",,,,,,,,,,59
464,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,1.5,2,1,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Enhancing adaptive capacity in agriculture may enhance the resilience of the poor as long as they are fully included in adaptation strategies,,,,,,,,,,44
465,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,3.3,2,3,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
466,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,6.3,2,6,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,Sustainable agriculture enables the improvement of water quality by reducing pollution,,,,,,,,,,55
467,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,7.1,2,7,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Increasing food productivity and farmers’ revenues may enable the increase of renewable energy in the global energy mix via biofuel production. This may also increase access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services",,,,,,,,,,59
468,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,7.2,2,7,+1: Enabling,1,Positive,"Increasing food productivity and farmers’ revenues may enable the increase of renewable energy in the global energy mix via biofuel production. This may also increase access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services",,,,,,,,,,59
