,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
3015,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.4,1.2,14,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,Higher value-added economic activities may displace livelihoods and increase poverty,,,,,,,,,,184
3016,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.5,1.1,14,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,MPAs restrict access and can create competition for scarce resources and so constrain poverty reduction efforts,,,,,,,,,,184
3017,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.5,1.2,14,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,MPAs restrict access and can create competition for scarce resources and so constrain poverty reduction efforts,,,,,,,,,,184
3018,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.5,2.1,14,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,MPAs may limit access to food resources and areas for aquaculture,,,,,,,,,,189
3019,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.5,2.2,14,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,MPAs may limit access to food resources and areas for aquaculture,,,,,,,,,,189
3020,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,Coastal areas,Global,,,14.5,11.1,14,11,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Constraints or counteracting of SDG11 targets concerning settlements and transport systems in the coastal zone could arise from increased conservation efforts in the coastal zone, depending on the conservation status applied or of measures intended",Ensure that sufficient representative coastal ecosystems are conserved and protected from human influence. Improve education and increase awareness of the role and importance of coastal and marine ecosystems and the multiple benefits from sustainable use and conservation,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,197
3021,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,Coastal areas,Global,,,14.5,11.2,14,11,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Constraints or counteracting of SDG11 targets concerning settlements and transport systems in the coastal zone could arise from increased conservation efforts in the coastal zone, depending on the conservation status applied or of measures intended",Ensure that sufficient representative coastal ecosystems are conserved and protected from human influence. Improve education and increase awareness of the role and importance of coastal and marine ecosystems and the multiple benefits from sustainable use and conservation,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,197
3022,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,Coastal areas,Global,,,14.5,11.3,14,11,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Constraints or counteracting of SDG11 targets concerning settlements and transport systems in the coastal zone could arise from increased conservation efforts in the coastal zone, depending on the conservation status applied or of measures intended",Ensure that sufficient representative coastal ecosystems are conserved and protected from human influence. Improve education and increase awareness of the role and importance of coastal and marine ecosystems and the multiple benefits from sustainable use and conservation,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,197
3023,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.7,1.1,14,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,Increased economic activity creates more pressure on coastal and marine resources and more environmental harm,"Establish the social, economic and environmental baselines for blue growth and develop roadmaps for key sectors with trackable milestones backed with environmental protection goals. Designate marine spaces for different social, economic and environmental uses and objectives and identify the trade-offs between competing uses. Create sovereign wealth funds to ensure flow of benefits after non-renewable resources are exhausted, avoid crowding out other economic sectors, and develop measures to avoid the impacts of inflation on the poor and vulnerable",,,,,,,,,184
3024,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.7,1.2,14,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,Increased economic activity creates more pressure on coastal and marine resources and more environmental harm,"Establish the social, economic and environmental baselines for blue growth and develop roadmaps for key sectors with trackable milestones backed with environmental protection goals. Designate marine spaces for different social, economic and environmental uses and objectives and identify the trade-offs between competing uses. Create sovereign wealth funds to ensure flow of benefits after non-renewable resources are exhausted, avoid crowding out other economic sectors, and develop measures to avoid the impacts of inflation on the poor and vulnerable",,,,,,,,,184
3025,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,14.7,8.9,14,8,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,Increasing economic benefits through sustainable coastal and marine tourism forms part of promoting sustainable tourism as such,Ensure policies to manage and develop tourism include provisions on pollution and waste management and respect conservation needs of sensitive habitats and species. Build capacities and raise awareness among actors and stakeholders on sustainable practices. Create incentives for sustainable tourism development,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,192
3026,"IPCC Wong, P.P., I.J. Losada, J.-P. Gattuso, J. Hinkel, A. Khattabi, K.L. McInnes, Y. Saito, and A. Sallenger, ",2014,"Chap. 5 - Coastal systems and low-lying areas. In: Climate Change 2014: Impacts,Adaptation, and Vulnerability. Part A: Global and Sectoral Aspects. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change",Global Assessment,,Global,Special case (does not fit any of the above),Interaction impact will be felt beyond 15 years,9.1,13.1,9,13,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Other projected impacts are beneficial for the transportation    system. For example, decline of Arctic sea-ice coverage could extend    seasonal accessibility to high-latitude shipping routes such as the    northwest shipping route that connects the Atlantic to the North Pacific    ",,"Other projected impacts are beneficial for the transportation system. For example, decline of Arctic sea-ice coverage could extend seasonal accessibility to high-latitude shipping routes such as the northwest shipping route that connects the Atlantic to the North Pacific    ",,,None,"Other projected impacts are beneficial for the transportation    system. For example, decline of Arctic sea-ice coverage could extend seasonal accessibility to high-latitude shipping routes such as the northwest shipping route that connects the Atlantic to the North Pacific    ",,,,383
3027,"Måns Nilsson, Elinor Chisholm, David Griggs, Philippa Howden-Chapman, David McCollum, Peter Messerli, Barbara Neumann, Anne-Sophie Stevance, Martin Visbeck, Mark Stafford-Smith",2018,Mapping interactions between the sustainable development goals: lessons learned and ways forward,Academic-peer reviewed,Australia,National,,,2.3,15.1,2,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"At a national level, Gao and Bryan (2017) explore the feasibility of achieving multiple targets in the Australian land use and show that managing trade-offs require targeted action in sectors such as energy, food production and water management",,,,,,,,,"Gao L, Bryan BA (2017) Finding pathways to national-scale landsector sustainability. Nature 544:217–222",
3028,"Måns Nilsson, Elinor Chisholm, David Griggs, Philippa Howden-Chapman, David McCollum, Peter Messerli, Barbara Neumann, Anne-Sophie Stevance, Martin Visbeck, Mark Stafford-Smith",2018,Mapping interactions between the sustainable development goals: lessons learned and ways forward,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.1,13.2,7,13,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,Rogelj et al. (2013) showed how the potential (small) trade-off between providing ‘energy for all’ and meeting a 2  C climate change target could be managed by setting specific minimum targets for the rates of change in energy and carbon intensity.,,,,,,,,,"Rogelj J, McCollum DL, Riahi K (2013) The UN’s ‘Sustainable Energy for All’ initiative is compatible with a warming limit of 2 [deg]C. Nat Clim Change 3:545–551. https://doi.org/10.1038/ nclimate1806",
3029,"Måns Nilsson, Elinor Chisholm, David Griggs, Philippa Howden-Chapman, David McCollum, Peter Messerli, Barbara Neumann, Anne-Sophie Stevance, Martin Visbeck, Mark Stafford-Smith",2018,Mapping interactions between the sustainable development goals: lessons learned and ways forward,Academic-peer reviewed,Australia,National,,,7.1,15.1,7,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"At a national level, Gao and Bryan (2017) explore the feasibility of achieving multiple targets in the Australian land use and show that managing trade-offs require targeted action in sectors such as energy, food production and water management",,,,,,,,,"Gao L, Bryan BA (2017) Finding pathways to national-scale landsector sustainability. Nature 544:217–222",
3030,"Miletto, M.",2015,Water and Energy nexus: findings of the World Water Development Report 2014,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.1,6.6,7,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The fifth edition of the United Nations World Water Development Report (UN WWDR) on Water and Energy[...] provides a comprehensive and up-to-date overview of the impacts of ever-increasing energy production on water resources and water users, including agriculture, rapidly expanding cities, expanding industry and the environment, and of the constraints that water poses to energy developments.","the different political economies of water and energy in particular should be recognized, as these affect the scope, speed and direction of change in each domain. While energy generally carries great political clout, and has virtually always been a private commodity, water resources have a long history of being considered as a public good, with access to safe water and sanitation being a human right  Decision-makers need to consider broader influences and cross-sectoral impacts, strive for innovative policies and integrated institutions. Sustainable policies should be based on sound technical, environmental and economic information addressing issues such as the availability and suitability of natural resources as well as socio-economic costs and benefits. Institutions involved in policy formulation must be mindful of the water–energy nexus and incorporate it into their planning and decision-making systems. Institutional capacity development can play an important role in fostering interdisciplinary and inter-ministerial approaches that support the integration of interdependencies in decision-making through knowledge and technology transfers between different governmental levels and sectors, and through the exchange of case-specific experiences. For major infrastructures, integrated planning and the joint design of programmes and investments between energy and water experts and managers may be appropriate.","Freshwater and energy are crucial for human wellbeing and sustainable socio-economic development. They are often at the base of major regional and global crises. Water is required to produce, transport and use all forms of energy to some degree, and energy is required for the extraction, treatment and distribution of water. The form of energy production being pursued determines the amount of water required to produce that energy. At the same time, the availability and allocation of freshwater resources determine how much (or how little) water can be secured for energy production. Decisions made for water use and management, and for energy production, can have significant, multifaceted and broad-reaching impacts on each other – and these impacts often carry a mix of both positive and negative repercussions.  While more water will be needed to increase energy production, more energy will be necessary to extract, distribute and treat water resources. Energy is essentially required for pumping and treatment of water. Pumping the enormous quantities of water for irrigation requires large amounts of energy because of water’s high density. The amount of energy needed for wastewater treatment processes varies greatly, depending on factors such as the quality of the source water, the nature of any contamination, and the types of treatment used by the facility; for instance, drinking water typically requires extensive treatment. Seawater desalination is very energy intensive for the requirements of reverse osmosis.",,,Strong,"Currently, 768 million people lack access to an improved source of water, 2.5 billion remain without access to improved sanitation, 1.3 billion lack access to electricity and 2.6 billion use solid fuels for cooking, with its related negative health effects  Besides consuming large quantities of water, cities also consume 60% to 80% of the commercial energy and emit about 75% of the greenhouse gases.","The WWDR 2014 calls for a coordinated approach to water and energy, based on generation and harmonization of data concerning the supply and use of energy production and water resources to inform decision-making, applying water and energy efficiency measures, and economic instruments to speed up reforms. ",,,93
3031,"Nilsson, M., et al. ",2016,Policy: Map the interactions between Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,Sub-Saharan Africa,Regional,,,,,2,7,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Finally, in some parts of sub-Saharan Africa, promoting food production can also constrain (–1) renewable-energy production (goal 7) and terrestrial ecosystem protection (goal 15) by competing for water and land. Conversely, limited land availability constrains (–1) agricultural production.",,,,,,,,,"The authors propose propose a seven-point scale of SDG interactions to organize evidence and support decisionmaking about national priorities. This should help policymakers and researchers to identify and test development pathways that minimize negative interactions and enhance positive ones. And it is globally applicable so that countries can compare and contrast, and learn from each other and over time.",322
3032,"Nilsson, M., et al. ",2016,Policy: Map the interactions between Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,Sub-Saharan Africa,Regional,,,,,2,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Finally, in some parts of sub-Saharan Africa, promoting food production can also constrain (–1) renewable-energy production (goal 7) and terrestrial ecosystem protection (goal 15) by competing for water and land. Conversely, limited land availability constrains (–1) agricultural production.",,,,,,,,,"The authors propose propose a seven-point scale of SDG interactions to organize evidence and support decisionmaking about national priorities. This should help policymakers and researchers to identify and test development pathways that minimize negative interactions and enhance positive ones. And it is globally applicable so that countries can compare and contrast, and learn from each other and over time.",322
3033,"Nilsson, M., et al. ",2016,Policy: Map the interactions between Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,Sub-Saharan Africa,Regional,,,,,13,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Food production interacts with climate-change mitigation (goal 13) in several ways. Climate mitigation constrains (–1) some types of food production, in particular those related to meat. ",,,,,,agriculture represents 20–35% of total anthropogenic greenhouse-gas emissions.  methane release from livestock constitutes nearly 40% of the global agricultural sector’s total emissions,,,"The authors propose propose a seven-point scale of SDG interactions to organize evidence and support decisionmaking about national priorities. This should help policymakers and researchers to identify and test development pathways that minimize negative interactions and enhance positive ones. And it is globally applicable so that countries can compare and contrast, and learn from each other and over time.",322
3034,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,2,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The core challenge of a sustainable bioeconomy in the EU seems to be finding a balance between the demands of the economy for food, energy and materials on the one hand and the sustainable supply capacities of natural systems (nationally and globally) on the other hand.",,,,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",168
3035,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,7,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The core challenge of a sustainable bioeconomy in the EU seems to be finding a balance between the demands of the economy for food, energy and materials on the one hand and the sustainable supply capacities of natural systems (nationally and globally) on the other hand.",,,,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",168
3036,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,12,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The core challenge of a sustainable bioeconomy in the EU seems to be finding a balance between the demands of the economy for food, energy and materials on the one hand and the sustainable supply capacities of natural systems (nationally and globally) on the other hand.",,,,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",168
3037,"Renzaho, A.M.N., et al.",2017,Biofuel production and its impact on food security in low and middle income countries: Implications for the post-2015 sustainable development goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.2,2.1,7,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"increasing use of food crops to produce biofuels in the United States, European Union, Japan and Brazil has been one important element in explaining the steady rise in staple food prices since 2000.... this is a potential threat to food and nutrition security in low and middle-income countries (mostly first generation biofuels)","For the post-2015 sustainable development agenda to have an impact, strong actions are required to protect rural communities as well as nurture the biofuels industry. This should be matched by commensurate investments in food and nutrition security, and transparent public–private partnerships. This calls for strong and pro-poor policies on feedstock farming, processing and trading. Such policies must address the rhetoric of stakeholder participation in land use management.","Negative outcomes associated with biofuel production include such as distorted food supplies and associated food price increases and competition for land and water. By virtue of the fact that biofuels are produced from living plants and agricultural residues or waste through biological processes, their production constitutes a major threat to global food systems and the natural environment.  There is potential for co-existence between biomass harvested for biofuel and grazing systems, but there are opportunity costs for diversion of grazing biomass for biofuel, social economic considerations and the environmental impact. From an international market point of view, biofuel producers, food, and livestock are indeed competing for the same commodity crops. Each generation of biofuel production has implications in terms of competition for labour, food, land, water, and forest and grasslands, all of which are closely associated with the food security.  Climate change and biofuel production are closely related and their combined effect is leading to the abrupt shift of the balance between food supply and demand from food surplus to deficit. Therefore, biofuel production affects food supply in two ways: by increasing green gas emission and by increasing food prices (competition for food).",,,Strong,"In the US, biofuel production was estimated to account for 20–25% maize price increase and 7–8% soybeans price increase between 2001 and 2007. The conversion of large volumes of maize to ethanol wiped out over 30% of 2007/8 the maize harvest in the USA alone, one of the leading ethanol and maize producers. In 2010, both the USA and Brazil dedicated a combined amount of over 460 million tons of maize and sugarcane respectively to biofuel production, which represents 6% of global crop production by mass. By 2010, the global biofuel production represented 2.7% of the global fuel for road transportation, equating to 107 billion liters, which represents more than a 450% increase from the year 2000. From 2005 to 2030, the amount of world crop in million tons (and as a % of total use) used for biofuel production will increase by two- to threefold from 65 to 182 (3.2% to 6.7%) for cereal; 7–29 (4.8% to 12.6%) for vegetable oil; 28–81 (15.1% to 27.4%) for sugar (or equivalent of sugar cane), and 1–8 (0.4% to 2.3%) for fresh cassava.  With the global crop demand and demand for crop calories and crop protein projected to increase by up to 120% by 2050 from 2005, to meet this demand would have severe environmental impacts, characterized by greater agricultural intensification in developed nations and greater land clearing (extensification) in LMICs, leading to ∼1 billion ha of land cleared globally and ∼3 Gt y−1 of greenhouse gas emissions. If the current trend of dedicating food feedstock for biofuel continues, it is estimated that the global food aid budget would need to rise by 35% in order to maintain the 2006 level of 8 million tons of food aid.  ",,,This paper examines challenges associated with biofuel production and how they relate to SDGs and their targets. The main focus is on challenges associated with biofuel production not adequately addressed in the SDGs.,503
3038,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Water used for agriculture (i.e., irrigation, food processing, transport, etc.) is the main component of the global water footprint.",,"The actual water footprints of agriculture are region-specific and depend on the relative importance of the agricultural sector, the size of the agricultural production area, soil and groundwater conditions, weather conditions, efficiency of agricultural production and irrigation systems, and water management practices.",,,Strong,"according to sampling data from 1995–2005, consumption by the agricultural sector ranked highest within all countries and the total global water consumption in agriculture was 92%",,,,8
3039,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,"Okinawa, Japan",Sub-national,,,,,6,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,water scarcity could also undermine the achievement of energy and food self-sufficiency targets.,(renewable) energy policies need to be integrated into policy frameworks of other sectors such that trade-offs contradicting with sustainable development are not overlooked,,,,Strong,,"In order to achieve food self-sufficiency, Okinawa will not only have to allocate more land for agricultural activities, but also achieve cost efficiency and production efficiency in agriculture to compete with inexpensive agricultural imports (both from mainland and other countries) and potentially increase the agriculture income per worker which currently lags behind other sectors. The footprint of energy on land, however can be reduced by utilizing areas that are insufficient for food production (roof tops, former military bases, ocean area etc.).",,"As revealed by our case studies assessing the interlinkages between energy, food, water and land, the expansion of renewable energies can be in direct conflict with SDGs. Thus, it is pertinent to use integrated cross-sectoral assessment when designing energy scenarios. For Okinawa, water could become the main bottleneck when expanding renewable energy and food self-sufficiency in the remote Japanese islands. In Sogn og Fjordane, the three tools applied (i.e., cross-sectoral footprints, self-sufficiency ratios and EWF nexus analysis) are insufficient to reveal the anticipated trade-offs, because pressure on the three common sustainability dimensions is relatively low due to small population densities and abundance of water resources in the Norwegian county. Here, the ecosystem system services (ESS) approach is the better choice. The further expansion of renewables comes at the expense of cultural and supporting ESS, which could outweigh gains from increased energy production.",20
3040,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,"Okinawa, Japan",Sub-national,,,,,6,7,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The parallel constraints on the energy, food and water sectors urgently call for integrated approaches to energy policy, accounting for cross-sectoral interlinkages. In particular, water could become the main bottleneck for further expansion of renewable energies, though this is an important goal given the continued high dependence on fossil resources even in the more ambitious scenario",(renewable) energy policies need to be integrated into policy frameworks of other sectors such that trade-offs contradicting with sustainable development are not overlooked,,,,Strong,,"Sustainable water management practices ranging from infrastructure investments in development of water reservoirs and transport systems to enable more efficient recycling of water can help alleviate the problems of water shortages.   Alternately, renewable ocean technologies that do not rely on freshwater resources such as offshore wind power are also an option for continued expansion of renewable energy without impacting water.",,"As revealed by our case studies assessing the interlinkages between energy, food, water and land, the expansion of renewable energies can be in direct conflict with SDGs. Thus, it is pertinent to use integrated cross-sectoral assessment when designing energy scenarios. For Okinawa, water could become the main bottleneck when expanding renewable energy and food self-sufficiency in the remote Japanese islands. In Sogn og Fjordane, the three tools applied (i.e., cross-sectoral footprints, self-sufficiency ratios and EWF nexus analysis) are insufficient to reveal the anticipated trade-offs, because pressure on the three common sustainability dimensions is relatively low due to small population densities and abundance of water resources in the Norwegian county. Here, the ecosystem system services (ESS) approach is the better choice. The further expansion of renewables comes at the expense of cultural and supporting ESS, which could outweigh gains from increased energy production.",20
3041,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The reliable provision of clean, low-carbon energy is an integral part of any sustainable development agenda, since energy is a key component of economic and social progress. At the same time, the provision of energy often conflicts with sustainable development because energy production consumes resources and degrades the environment. Key trade-offs associated with renewable energy production and its distribution arise from footprints on water and land which is why a cross-sectoral approach to energy analysis is essential","While the complex nature of the problem requires the use of detailed integrated assessment methods, the resources available within public administration for conducting such assessments are limited. Thus, there is a need for a more practical and efficient approach for assessing the integrated system perspective for energy planning","Many regions already face constraints in their land and/or water resources, which is likely to become more severe in the event of continued global warming. Thus, hydropower competes with the supply of potable water; energy crops compete with food production and extensive land-use competes with the strive for intact nature.",,,Strong,,,,,1
3042,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"In case of the water footprint of energy, two indicators are commonly used, the water footprint of primary energy production and the water footprint of electricity.",,"The factors for primary energy production depend on technologies to extract/mine, process, and transport the energy carriers. The highest footprint factors are associated with energy crops. The major amount is needed for mining. Factors for electricity production, on the other hand, change with fuel, cooling technology, and turbine type. Among renewable technologies, the estimate of footprint factors for hydropower is highly site-specific and therefore commonly left out of general compilations, but provides estimates on the global water footprint of hydropower. Most factors range between 102–106 L per MWh. In comparison, solar PV is relatively more efficient with values between 5–100 L per MWh.",,,Strong,"For example, sugarcane ethanol production consumes between 2000–3,000,000 L per ton of oil equivalent (toe). Whereas fossil fuels range between 1–200,000 L per ton.",,,,"7, 8"
3043,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The reliable provision of clean, low-carbon energy is an integral part of any sustainable development agenda, since energy is a key component of economic and social progress. At the same time, the provision of energy often conflicts with sustainable development because energy production consumes resources and degrades the environment. Key trade-offs associated with renewable energy production and its distribution arise from footprints on water and land which is why an cross-sectoral approach to energy analysis is essential","While the complex nature of the problem requires the use of detailed integrated assessment methods, the resources available within public administration for conducting such assessments are limited. Thus, there is a need for a more practical and efficient approach for assessing the integrated system perspective for energy planning","Many regions already face constraints in their land and/or water resources, which is likely to become more severe in the event of continued global warming. Thus, hydropower competes with the supply of potable water; energy crops compete with food production and extensive land-use competes with the strive for intact nature.",,,Strong,,,,,1
3044,"Schwerhoff, G., et al.",2017,Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Reductions in fossil fuel subsidies can thus be used to finance an effective and sustainable policy for fighting poverty, in particular by providing basic infrastructure.","Stakeholder involvement, meaning a well-designed policy dialogue with the most relevant groups, is a proven way of addressing the challenge of resistance or veto power to the implementation of climate policy, by addressing issues such as income and wealth distributional effects of climate policy, politicial resistance of adversely affected interest groups, and veto power exercised by various actors.","In many developing countries, fossil fuel subsidies not only accelerate CO2 emissions, but also pose a high burden on the government budgets and have regressive distributional effects. In cases in which removing subsidies would increase inequality, a reform package can be designed such that budgetary savings are redistributed in a way that renders the overall outcome progressive. In addition, investing the public revenues freed by a subsidy reform to promote development goals, such as health, education, or access to basic infrastructure, also predominantly benefits poor household and can thus generate a “double progressivity”.",,,Strong,,,Links to SDGs 9 and 11,,3
3045,"Schwerhoff, G., et al.",2017,Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,13,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Reductions in fossil fuel subsidies can thus be used to finance an effective and sustainable policy for fighting poverty, in particular by providing basic infrastructure.","Stakeholder involvement, meaning a well-designed policy dialogue with the most relevant groups, is a proven way of addressing the challenge of resistance or veto power to the implementation of climate policy, by addressing issues such as income and wealth distributional effects of climate policy, politicial resistance of adversely affected interest groups, and veto power exercised by various actors.","In many developing countries, fossil fuel subsidies not only accelerate CO2 emissions, but also pose a high burden on the government budgets and have regressive distributional effects. In cases in which removing subsidies would increase inequality, a reform package can be designed such that budgetary savings are redistributed in a way that renders the overall outcome progressive. In addition, investing the public revenues freed by a subsidy reform to promote development goals, such as health, education, or access to basic infrastructure, also predominantly benefits poor household and can thus generate a “double progressivity”.",,,Strong,,,Links to SDGs 9 and 11,,3
3046,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,2.3,2.1,2,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"A third trade-off occurs in the decision of how much fodder versus food crops to supply, at both farm and larger agro-ecological scales. Fodder is a food and fuel for animal nutrition. Animal draft power (energy) has declined in most regions, as has reliance on animal dung for fuel versus manure. Fodder for dairy production (the ‘white revolution’) is increasing, and is more demanding than simple grazing.",,,,,Strong,,,,,31
3047,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Food water nexus food challenges: Production shifts poleward, higher elevation; Climate change raises irrigation demand; More groundwater pumped w/variable climate; Diminishing institutional influence of irrigation","The WEF Nexus... is a pivotal concept for scientific research and a policy tool that allows for operationalization of links between sets of two resources (waterfood, food-energy, water-energy) building up to a triple nexus or triad approach to adaptive management.",Fig.1 a Water-energy-food nexus interlinkages at multiple levels. b Water-energy-food nexus triopticon challenge perspectives,,,Strong,,,,,20
3048,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Likewise, water-food trade-offs include land cover change through hillslope grazing that aggravates watershed sedimentation, erosion and flooding. ",,,,,Strong,,,,,31
3049,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,7,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Energy-food nexus food challenges: Local food chains minimize transport energy; Energy intensity of farm operations; Climate change increases food cooling needs; Extended crop seasons, night-time operation","The WEF Nexus... is a pivotal concept for scientific research and a policy tool that allows for operationalization of links between sets of two resources (waterfood, food-energy, water-energy) building up to a triple nexus or triad approach to adaptive management.",Fig.1 a Water-energy-food nexus interlinkages at multiple levels. b Water-energy-food nexus triopticon challenge perspectives,,,Strong,,,,,20
3050,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Although increasingly evoked as a new problem, trade-offs between biofuel and food production are once again an issue with ancient origins. Consider the situation of villages that deforest watershed hillslopes for fuel, at the expense of agricultural land productivity downslope. ",,"late twentieth century shift in water and cropping to supply biofuels production, mainly through maize for ethanol production. National Research Council (2007) cited water quality problems (increased nitrogen runoff), as well as consumptive use of water for biofuels rather than food and fodder production. It also cited the economic inefficiencies of biofuels production subsidies, and the potential social impacts of higher food prices. The vision of decreased water demands, nonfood crops for cellulosic ethanol production, such as switchgrass, have not proven commercially viable on a large scale to date",,,Strong,,,,,31
3051,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,Energy-food nexus energy challenges: Biofuel must not compete w/ food production; Energy intensification of agriculture; Energy intensification of food transport; Mitigate hydropower-farming trade-offs,"The WEF Nexus... is a pivotal concept for scientific research and a policy tool that allows for operationalization of links between sets of two resources (waterfood, food-energy, water-energy) building up to a triple nexus or triad approach to adaptive management.",Fig.1 a Water-energy-food nexus interlinkages at multiple levels. b Water-energy-food nexus triopticon challenge perspectives,,,Strong,,,,,20
3052,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,Water-energy nexus energy challenges: Water footprint of multiple energy portfolios; Energy generation degrades water quality; Dry cooled thermo-generation potential/limits; Low water footprint solar PV and wind,"The WEF Nexus... is a pivotal concept for scientific research and a policy tool that allows for operationalization of links between sets of two resources (waterfood, food-energy, water-energy) building up to a triple nexus or triad approach to adaptive management.",Fig.1 a Water-energy-food nexus interlinkages at multiple levels. b Water-energy-food nexus triopticon challenge perspectives,,,Strong,,,,,20
3053,"Stafford-Smith, M., Griggs, D., Gaffney, O., Ullah, F., Reyers, B., Kanie, N., Stigson, B., Shrivastava, P., Leach, M., O’Connell, D.",2016,Integration: the key to implementing the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,1.4,6.3,1,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"promoting increased consumption to alleviate poverty may lead to the failure of other goals, such as the sustainable management of water. ","Uncoordinated action may create internal conflicts, such as subsidies for both renewable and non-renewable fuel sources, or missed synergies",,,,,,,,"The article gives recommendations for the SDGs' 7 means of implementation: Finance, Technology, Capacity building, Trade, Policy and institutional coherence, Multi-stakeholder partnerships, and Data, monitoring and accountability",912
3054,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3055,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,3,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3056,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,6,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3057,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,8,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3058,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,9,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3059,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,10,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3060,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,14,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3061,TWI2050,2018,Transformations to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals: Report prepared by The World in 2050 initiative,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,7,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Figure 3.8 summarizes the interactions identified in the energy literature on an SDG target-by-target basis. It should be noted, however, that it is difficult to assign unequivocal scores. The assessment shows that SDG 7 has strong relationships with several other SDGs. In many cases, there are rather positive interactions between SDG 7 and the other SDGs, indicating that positive interactions might outweigh negative ones, both in number and magnitude. Examples include sustainable urban development (among other reduction of air pollution), climate change (reduction of CO2 emissions), development of marine and terrestrial biodiversity (among others via reduced climate change), eradication of poverty and hunger and decent work and economic growth (via provisioning of energy services), and good health and wellbeing (provisioning of energy services and reduction of air pollution). Trade-offs, on the other hand, were identified in particular for SDG 2 (via the production of bioenergy). Large-scale 2nd generation bioenergy deployment is a key element of 1.5°C and 2°C transformation pathways (SDG 7 and SDG 13) (Schleussner et al., 2016; Rogelj et al., 2015). However, large-scale bioenergy production might have negative sustainability implications and thus may conflict with the SDGs, especially with climate (Popp et al., 2014) and biodiversity protection, food and water security (Bonsch et al., 2016) as well as environmental pollution (e.g., nitrogen). does not show any trade-off between climate mitigation and universal modern energy access objectives; in this case two opposite forces are at play.",,,,,,,,,See McCollum et al. (2018a),"88, 89"
3062,UNCCD,2017,Land under Pressure,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,12.2,2,12,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The current pressures on land are huge and expected to continue growing: there is rapidly escalating competition between the demand for land functions that provide food, water, and energy, and those services that support and regulate all life cycles on Earth.",,,,,,,,,,8
3063,UNCCD,2017,Land under Pressure,Global Assessment,Wealthy nations,National,OECD,,2.1,12.3,2,12,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The widening gulf between production and consumption, and ensuing levels of food loss/waste, further accelerate the rate of land use change, land degradation and deforestation: in poor countries, food loss is primarily due to the lack of storage and transport while in wealthy nations, food waste is a result of profligacy and inefficiencies towards the end of the food supply chain.",,,,,,,,,,8
3064,UNCCD,2017,Land under Pressure,Global Assessment,,,,,2.3,15.1,2,15,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The current agribusiness model benefits the few at the expense of the many: small-scale farmers, the essence of rural livelihoods and backbone of food production for millennia, are under immense stress from land degradation, insecure tenure, and a globalized food system that favors concentrated, large-scale, and highly mechanized farms.",,,,,,,,,,8
3065,UNCCD,2017,Land under Pressure,Global Assessment,,Global,,,6.1,12.2,6,12,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The current pressures on land are huge and expected to continue growing: there is rapidly escalating competition between the demand for land functions that provide food, water, and energy, and those services that support and regulate all life cycles on Earth.",,,,,,,,,,8
3066,UNCCD,2017,Land under Pressure,Global Assessment,,Global,,,7.1,12.2,7,12,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"The current pressures on land are huge and expected to continue growing: there is rapidly escalating competition between the demand for land functions that provide food, water, and energy, and those services that support and regulate all life cycles on Earth.",,,,,,,,,,8
3067,UNCTAD,2018,Technology and Innovation Report 2018: Harnessing Frontier Technologies for Sustainable Development ,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,4,5,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"womnes are  also a steadily declining minority among graduates in computer science, and are underrepresented among STI decision makers.",,,,,,,,,,xiii
3068,UNCTAD,2018,Technology and Innovation Report 2018: Harnessing Frontier Technologies for Sustainable Development ,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,9,5,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Digital automation can affect women and men differently. This is because a large share of women tend to be employed mostly in routine and lower-skills occupations which present the highest risk of automation  A key issue is the gender divide in STEM, information technology and computing. Globally, only 28 % of reserachers were women in 2013, with still wider gender gaps in South and West Asia, and in East Asia and the Pacific.The gender gap is also significant in the Arab States and the Asia and Pacific region (figure 2.6).",,,,,,"Women are also seriously underrepresented in the digital sector. There is a major gender divide in mobile phone ownership, especially in South Asia, and in Internet use, especially in LDCs and sub-Saharan Africa, where the gap has widened since 2013. The gender gap in access to the Internet is now annow anintolerable 16.1 % in developing countries and  11.3 for the world a s a whole. Box 1.13 Potential gender implications of digital automation. There are significant regional difference in the propertion of female researchers. proportion of female researchersTable 2.1 Share of female researchers, by region",,,,"xiii, 22,44, 45, 46, 47 "
3069,UNDESA,2016,Global Sustainable Development Report,Global Assessment,,Global,,,9.5,10.3,9,10,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"New gaps often emerge with the application of new technologies, such as big data, the Internet of Things, 3D printing, massive online open courses and digital automation. All these could have wide-ranging implications that increase, rather than decrease, existing inequalities.","need for national and international action plans and technology roadmaps. Promising technological trajectories and new industries can be identified by each country. Scientists suggested the importance of investing at the same time in new and old technologies; in increased performance of advanced technologies and technology adaptations for underserved communities; in large-scale infrastructures and smallscale technologies with large numbers of units. They also suggested that science roadmaps should include measures relating to affordability and inclusion... Other key policy elements: effective national science-policy interfaces; foresight and scenarios; facilitation of learning across communities, including underserved communities; and cluster analysis",,The furthest behind,,,"(But all technologies consume resources, and may use land and pollute air, water and the atmosphere, albeit to varying degrees",,,"(Technology is an important theme in the GSDR 2016) / New technologies illustrating this challenging dual feature (benefits and trade-offs): digital automation, nanotechnology, biotechnology and genomics, and synthetic biology","xiv, xv"
3070,UNDP,2016,UNDP Support to the Implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 8: Promoting Inclusive and Sustainable Economic Growth,Global Assessment,,National,All types,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,8.3,10.1,8,10,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Innovation, driven by labour-saving technologies and the hiring of high-skill workers, increases the demand (and wages) for high-skilled labor and reduces demand (and wages) for some low- and medium-skill workers. This will increase income inequality.",,,,"Poor, low-skilled labor, uneducated",,,,Income inequalities may increase pressure on the public sector and social tensions. ,,4
3071,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,,National,All types,,7.2,7.1,7,7,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"Although environmental
taxes are generally progressive, there is a need for careful analysis to identify their impacts on particular
vulnerable groups. For example, ‘dirty’ fuels such as coal are predominantly used by marginalized urban
poor households who may not have access to cleaner fuels such as cooking gas (LNG or LPG); an increased
tax on coal is therefore likely to be regressive. Removal of subsidies on diesel can result in kerosene (meant
for the poor) being diverted to industrial and commercial uses (for adulteration of more expensive diesel
with cheaper kerosene).","The poor have typically benefited where there has been a clear commitment to use the revenues from EFR to
benefit or compensate them. Experience shows that EFR succeeds where there has been careful management
of the reforms within an inclusive political process and where reforms are tailored to a country’s circumstances.
Careful coalition-building and leadership can overcome the vested interests that may hamper reform.",,,,,,,,,"11, 12"
3072,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,,Global,,,8.9,1.4,8,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"However, making sure that the benefits of ecotourism initiatives reach all
sections of the community, particularly the poor and vulnerable, requires understanding and managing
some trade-offs. Trade-offs include: (i) lost livelihoods and income from restrictions placed on land uses and
natural resource extraction; (ii) reduced health resulting from loss of access to natural-based foods; and (iii)
loss of employment ensuing from changes in labour requirements related to modifications in land uses",,,,,,,,,,13
3073,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,,Global,,,8.9,2.2,8,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"However, making sure that the benefits of ecotourism initiatives reach all
sections of the community, particularly the poor and vulnerable, requires understanding and managing
some trade-offs. Trade-offs include: (i) lost livelihoods and income from restrictions placed on land uses and
natural resource extraction; (ii) reduced health resulting from loss of access to natural-based foods; and (iii)
loss of employment ensuing from changes in labour requirements related to modifications in land uses",,,,,,,,,,13
3074,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,,Global,,,8.9,8.5,8,8,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"However, making sure that the benefits of ecotourism initiatives reach all
sections of the community, particularly the poor and vulnerable, requires understanding and managing
some trade-offs. Trade-offs include: (i) lost livelihoods and income from restrictions placed on land uses and
natural resource extraction; (ii) reduced health resulting from loss of access to natural-based foods; and (iii)
loss of employment ensuing from changes in labour requirements related to modifications in land uses",,,,,,,,,,13
3075,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,,Global,,,8.9,10.2,8,10,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"In
addition, negative economic impacts can result from leakages of ecotourism income away from the local
economy and demand volatility influenced by political instability, safety issues (e.g., crime, weather) and the
trendiness of the destination. Potential social trade-offs include: (i) increased land prices resulting from an
increased demand for land; (ii) loss of cultural heritage or commodification of culture from abandoning or
selling traditions; (iii) loss of control or flexibility over local development options where easements or longterm
contracts specify a narrow range of management alternatives or where community land owners and
landless do not become involved; (vi) inequality due to a failure to distribute benefits fairly; (v) increased
competition from markets that lead to marginalization of weaker groups; and (vi), at the extreme, sexual exploitation, stress, crime and child labour.","Deliberate and complementary poverty reduction policies
integrated in ecotourism design and implementation are therefore required for ecotourism to directly result
in poverty reduction.",,,,,,,,,"13, 14"
3076,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,,Global,,,8.9,10.3,8,10,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"In
addition, negative economic impacts can result from leakages of ecotourism income away from the local
economy and demand volatility influenced by political instability, safety issues (e.g., crime, weather) and the
trendiness of the destination. Potential social trade-offs include: (i) increased land prices resulting from an
increased demand for land; (ii) loss of cultural heritage or commodification of culture from abandoning or
selling traditions; (iii) loss of control or flexibility over local development options where easements or longterm
contracts specify a narrow range of management alternatives or where community land owners and
landless do not become involved; (vi) inequality due to a failure to distribute benefits fairly; (v) increased
competition from markets that lead to marginalization of weaker groups; and (vi), at the extreme, sexual exploitation, stress, crime and child labour.","Deliberate and complementary poverty reduction policies
integrated in ecotourism design and implementation are therefore required for ecotourism to directly result
in poverty reduction.",,,,,,,,,"13, 14"
3077,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,,Global,,,8.9,11.4,8,11,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"In
addition, negative economic impacts can result from leakages of ecotourism income away from the local
economy and demand volatility influenced by political instability, safety issues (e.g., crime, weather) and the
trendiness of the destination. Potential social trade-offs include: (i) increased land prices resulting from an
increased demand for land; (ii) loss of cultural heritage or commodification of culture from abandoning or
selling traditions; (iii) loss of control or flexibility over local development options where easements or longterm
contracts specify a narrow range of management alternatives or where community land owners and
landless do not become involved; (vi) inequality due to a failure to distribute benefits fairly; (v) increased
competition from markets that lead to marginalization of weaker groups; and (vi), at the extreme, sexual exploitation, stress, crime and child labour.","Deliberate and complementary poverty reduction policies
integrated in ecotourism design and implementation are therefore required for ecotourism to directly result
in poverty reduction.",,,,,,,,,"13, 14"
3078,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,Vanuatu,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,,14.7,1.4,14,1,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"However, making sure that the benefits of ecotourism initiatives reach all
sections of the community, particularly the poor and vulnerable, requires understanding and managing
some trade-offs. Trade-offs include: (i) lost livelihoods and income from restrictions placed on land uses and
natural resource extraction; (ii) reduced health resulting from loss of access to natural-based foods; and (iii)
loss of employment ensuing from changes in labour requirements related to modifications in land uses",,,,,,,,,,13
3079,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,Vanuatu,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,,14.7,2.2,14,2,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"However, making sure that the benefits of ecotourism initiatives reach all
sections of the community, particularly the poor and vulnerable, requires understanding and managing
some trade-offs. Trade-offs include: (i) lost livelihoods and income from restrictions placed on land uses and
natural resource extraction; (ii) reduced health resulting from loss of access to natural-based foods; and (iii)
loss of employment ensuing from changes in labour requirements related to modifications in land uses",,,,,,,,,,13
3080,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,Vanuatu,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,,14.7,8.5,14,8,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"However, making sure that the benefits of ecotourism initiatives reach all
sections of the community, particularly the poor and vulnerable, requires understanding and managing
some trade-offs. Trade-offs include: (i) lost livelihoods and income from restrictions placed on land uses and
natural resource extraction; (ii) reduced health resulting from loss of access to natural-based foods; and (iii)
loss of employment ensuing from changes in labour requirements related to modifications in land uses",,,,,,,,,,13
3081,"UNDP, UNEP, DESA",2015,Towards green and inclusive prosperity – building green economies that deliver on poverty reduction,Global Assessment,Vanuatu,National,SIDS and Developing and LDCs,,14.7,10.2,14,10,-1: Constraining,-1,Negative,"In
addition, negative economic impacts can result from leakages of ecotourism income away from the local
economy and demand volatility influenced by political instability, safety issues (e.g., crime, weather) and the
trendiness of the destination. Potential social trade-offs include: (i) increased land prices resulting from an
increased demand for land; (ii) loss of cultural heritage or commodification of culture from abandoning or
selling traditions; (iii) loss of control or flexibility over local development options where easements or longterm
contracts specify a narrow range of management alternatives or where community land owners and
landless do not become involved; (vi) inequality due to a failure to distribute benefits fairly; (v) increased
competition from markets that lead to marginalization of weaker groups; and (vi), at the extreme, sexual exploitation, stress, crime and child labour.","Deliberate and complementary poverty reduction policies
integrated in ecotourism design and implementation are therefore required for ecotourism to directly result
in poverty reduction.",,,,,,,,,"13, 14"
