,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
1876,"Ringler, C., et al.",2013,"The nexus across water, energy, land and food (WELF): potential for improved resource use efficiency?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The energy-land linkage is mostly defined by rapid growth of fertilizer applications on land.,,,,,Strong,,"Nexus assessments need to consider both human well-being and environmental outcomes, that is, the environment has to have a seat at the table’ for nexus analyses. Outcomes must also be evaluated for the poor, whose well-being is tightly interrelated but often in conflict with maintaining environmental integrity. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a globally significant test for the implementation of nexus thinking. Recommendations are: develop an enabling environment to enhance equity in natural resource access, abandon silo thinking and vested interests, provide relevant and quantified information and tools, develop and disseminate resource-use efficient technologies for enhanced sustainability across the nexus, reduce distortionary subsidies, optimize market and trade solutions.",,,619
1877,"Ringler, C., et al.",2013,"The nexus across water, energy, land and food (WELF): potential for improved resource use efficiency?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Water, land and energy resources are all crucial contributors to food security. As a result of growing natural resource scarcity, the inter-connectedness of these sectors has become more apparent, as evidenced by growing tradeoffs and the incipient search for cross-sector efficiencies. Both direct and indirect drivers of change, such as climate change, natural resource endowment, demographics and science and technology policies affect these linkages, shaping final development and sustainability outcomes, including food and nutrition security, improved health, access to modern forms of energy, and environmental quality.  ","Proactive engagement by the water, energy, land and food (WELF) sectors with important roles for national governments and international bodies is required to holistically assess and promote investment options that co-balance benefits across different sectors.","Although the land dimension is not included in most existing nexus documents or frameworks, land is important not only to produce food, but also energy (biofuels or shale gas), and water supply (reservoirs, underground water storage). Land scarcity has been growing rapidly in developing countries as indicated by the much talked of ‘land grabs’",,,Strong,,"Nexus assessments need to consider both human well-being and environmental outcomes, that is, the environment has to have a seat at the table’ for nexus analyses. Outcomes must also be evaluated for the poor, whose well-being is tightly interrelated but often in conflict with maintaining environmental integrity. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a globally significant test for the implementation of nexus thinking. Recommendations are: develop an enabling environment to enhance equity in natural resource access, abandon silo thinking and vested interests, provide relevant and quantified information and tools, develop and disseminate resource-use efficient technologies for enhanced sustainability across the nexus, reduce distortionary subsidies, optimize market and trade solutions.",,,617
1878,"Ringler, C., et al.",2013,"The nexus across water, energy, land and food (WELF): potential for improved resource use efficiency?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Although forests have always been used for fuelwood and almost 70 percent of people in Sub-Saharan Africa continue to rely on wood and by-products as their primary cooking fuel , the land-energy linkage only increased in prominence when biofuel development started in earnest and large areas of land that could be developed for energy, rather than food, were identified, and targeted, by both national and international investors, chiefly for biofuel plantations",,,,,Strong,,"Nexus assessments need to consider both human well-being and environmental outcomes, that is, the environment has to have a seat at the table’ for nexus analyses. Outcomes must also be evaluated for the poor, whose well-being is tightly interrelated but often in conflict with maintaining environmental integrity. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a globally significant test for the implementation of nexus thinking. Recommendations are: develop an enabling environment to enhance equity in natural resource access, abandon silo thinking and vested interests, provide relevant and quantified information and tools, develop and disseminate resource-use efficient technologies for enhanced sustainability across the nexus, reduce distortionary subsidies, optimize market and trade solutions.",,,619
1879,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly three of the goals are symptomatic of the water-energy-food (WEF) nexus. These are (1) End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture (SDG2); (2) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all (SDG6); and (3) Ensure access to  affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG7). Expected improvements in these three sectors are interlinked and, given growing natural resource scarcity and degradation and political and economic constraints, are unlikely to all be achieved everywhere by 2030 nor by 2050. ","All of the improvements require political will, significant investment, and institutional capacity.","Increases in food production require large additional water and energy resources, increased access to modern (renewable) energy depends on the use of increased amounts of water, and full access to safe water supplies will require both more water and more energy to treat this water to safe standards. The interlinkages and trade-offs between water, energy, and food at the global level became apparent as a result of the world food price crisis of 2007/08. This crisis was driven, in part, by the generation of energy from food crops, contributing to a high correlation coefficient between food and oil price indexes but also by drought in key wheat-producing areas of Australia and Ukraine. Another important determinant of the close linkage between these price indexes is the increased energy intensity of agriculture and the food supply chain, particularly in some rapidly growing developing countries",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1880,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly three of the goals are symptomatic of the water-energy-food (WEF) nexus. These are (1) End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture (SDG2); (2) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all (SDG6); and (3) Ensure access to  affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG7). Expected improvements in these three sectors are interlinked and, given growing natural resource scarcity and degradation and political and economic constraints, are unlikely to all be achieved everywhere by 2030 nor by 2050. ","All of the improvements require political will, significant investment, and institutional capacity.","Increases in food production require large additional water and energy resources, increased access to modern (renewable) energy depends on the use of increased amounts of water, and full access to safe water supplies will require both more water and more energy to treat this water to safe standards. The interlinkages and trade-offs between water, energy, and food at the global level became apparent as a result of the world food price crisis of 2007/08. This crisis was driven, in part, by the generation of energy from food crops, contributing to a high correlation coefficient between food and oil price indexes but also by drought in key wheat-producing areas of Australia and Ukraine. Another important determinant of the close linkage between these price indexes is the increased energy intensity of agriculture and the food supply chain, particularly in some rapidly growing developing countries",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1881,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly three of the goals are symptomatic of the water-energy-food (WEF) nexus. These are (1) End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture (SDG2); (2) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all (SDG6); and (3) Ensure access to  affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG7). Expected improvements in these three sectors are interlinked and, given growing natural resource scarcity and degradation and political and economic constraints, are unlikely to all be achieved everywhere by 2030 nor by 2050. ","All of the improvements require political will, significant investment, and institutional capacity.","Increases in food production require large additional water and energy resources, increased access to modern (renewable) energy depends on the use of increased amounts of water, and full access to safe water supplies will require both more water and more energy to treat this water to safe standards. The interlinkages and trade-offs between water, energy, and food at the global level became apparent as a result of the world food price crisis of 2007/08. This crisis was driven, in part, by the generation of energy from food crops, contributing to a high correlation coefficient between food and oil price indexes but also by drought in key wheat-producing areas of Australia and Ukraine. Another important determinant of the close linkage between these price indexes is the increased energy intensity of agriculture and the food supply chain, particularly in some rapidly growing developing countries",,,Strong,"approximately 85 % of freshwater consumption (and 60 % of freshwater withdrawals) were used for irrigation in 2010 globally. In 2010, about 13 % of water demands across the agriculture, domestic, and industrial sectors could not be met either due to the lack of water availability or due to lack of investment or access",,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1882,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly three of the goals are symptomatic of the water-energy-food (WEF) nexus. These are (1) End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture (SDG2); (2) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all (SDG6); and (3) Ensure access to  affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG7). Expected improvements in these three sectors are interlinked and, given growing natural resource scarcity and degradation and political and economic constraints, are unlikely to all be achieved everywhere by 2030 nor by 2050. ","All of the improvements require political will, significant investment, and institutional capacity.","Increases in food production require large additional water and energy resources, increased access to modern (renewable) energy depends on the use of increased amounts of water, and full access to safe water supplies will require both more water and more energy to treat this water to safe standards. The interlinkages and trade-offs between water, energy, and food at the global level became apparent as a result of the world food price crisis of 2007/08. This crisis was driven, in part, by the generation of energy from food crops, contributing to a high correlation coefficient between food and oil price indexes but also by drought in key wheat-producing areas of Australia and Ukraine. Another important determinant of the close linkage between these price indexes is the increased energy intensity of agriculture and the food supply chain, particularly in some rapidly growing developing countries",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1883,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.2,7.1,7,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In order to improve energy security and reduce GHG emissions from conventional fossil fuels, evidence supports the need to introduce a larger share of alternative energy sources, such as nuclear and renewable energy, into the global energy mix",,,,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,162
1884,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,a fossil fuel tax would not adversely affect food security and could be a boon to global food security if it reduces adverse climate change impacts.,Carbon taxes are one important avenue supported by the Paris Agreement to shift capital flows toward climate mitigation.,"higher fossil fuel prices due to a carbon tax, for example, reduce household income, particularly of countries that are net exporters of fossil fuels or net importers of refined petrol. Carbon taxes geared toward mitigating climate change slightly change food production levels, but do not significantly affect food prices and food security. direct cost-push effect of higher energy prices on food prices can be dominated by macroeconomic income effects. However, substantially expanding biofuel production to increase energy availability increases the number of food-insecure people. To the extent that the reduction in fossil fuel use due to carbon taxes lessens climate change, these taxes can improve food security substantially. ",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1885,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly three of the goals are symptomatic of the water-energy-food (WEF) nexus. These are (1) End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture (SDG2); (2) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all (SDG6); and (3) Ensure access to  affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG7). Expected improvements in these three sectors are interlinked and, given growing natural resource scarcity and degradation and political and economic constraints, are unlikely to all be achieved everywhere by 2030 nor by 2050. ","All of the improvements require political will, significant investment, and institutional capacity.","Increases in food production require large additional water and energy resources, increased access to modern (renewable) energy depends on the use of increased amounts of water, and full access to safe water supplies will require both more water and more energy to treat this water to safe standards. The interlinkages and trade-offs between water, energy, and food at the global level became apparent as a result of the world food price crisis of 2007/08. This crisis was driven, in part, by the generation of energy from food crops, contributing to a high correlation coefficient between food and oil price indexes but also by drought in key wheat-producing areas of Australia and Ukraine. Another important determinant of the close linkage between these price indexes is the increased energy intensity of agriculture and the food supply chain, particularly in some rapidly growing developing countries",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1886,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly three of the goals are symptomatic of the water-energy-food (WEF) nexus. These are (1) End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture (SDG2); (2) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all (SDG6); and (3) Ensure access to  affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG7). Expected improvements in these three sectors are interlinked and, given growing natural resource scarcity and degradation and political and economic constraints, are unlikely to all be achieved everywhere by 2030 nor by 2050. ","All of the improvements require political will, significant investment, and institutional capacity.","Increases in food production require large additional water and energy resources, increased access to modern (renewable) energy depends on the use of increased amounts of water, and full access to safe water supplies will require both more water and more energy to treat this water to safe standards. The interlinkages and trade-offs between water, energy, and food at the global level became apparent as a result of the world food price crisis of 2007/08. This crisis was driven, in part, by the generation of energy from food crops, contributing to a high correlation coefficient between food and oil price indexes but also by drought in key wheat-producing areas of Australia and Ukraine. Another important determinant of the close linkage between these price indexes is the increased energy intensity of agriculture and the food supply chain, particularly in some rapidly growing developing countries",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1887,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In order to improve energy security and reduce GHG emissions from conventional fossil fuels, evidence supports the need to introduce a larger share of alternative energy sources, such as nuclear and renewable energy, into the global energy mix",,"currently proposed emission reductions, while significant, are expected to still lead to a global temperature increase of around 2.6 °C by 2100. Over the past decade (2000–2010), emissions from fossil fuel combustion and industrial processes were already relatively stable, contributing about 78 % of total GHG emissions",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,162
1888,"Ringler, C., et al.",2016,"Global linkages among energy, food and water: an economic assessment",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,a fossil fuel tax would not adversely affect food security and could be a boon to global food security if it reduces adverse climate change impacts.,Carbon taxes are one important avenue supported by the Paris Agreement to shift capital flows toward climate mitigation.,"higher fossil fuel prices due to a carbon tax, for example, reduce household income, particularly of countries that are net exporters of fossil fuels or net importers of refined petrol. Carbon taxes geared toward mitigating climate change slightly change food production levels, but do not significantly affect food prices and food security. direct cost-push effect of higher energy prices on food prices can be dominated by macroeconomic income effects. However, substantially expanding biofuel production to increase energy availability increases the number of food-insecure people. To the extent that the reduction in fossil fuel use due to carbon taxes lessens climate change, these taxes can improve food security substantially. ",,,Strong,,,,This article describes the complex relationship between energy price changes and outcomes for food and water security using two global modeling frameworks: the global CGE model GLOBE and the partial equilibrium model IMPACT assessing various energy price pathways under a climate change and a no climate change scenario out to 2050 ,161
1889,"Salah, A.H., et al.",2017,Analytical investigation of different operational scenarios of a novel greenhouse combined with solar stills,Academic-peer reviewed,"Borg-Elarab, Egypt",Sub-national,,,,,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Applying this new innovative combined greenhouse system can satisfy many targets such as food security, water production, energy generation and reducing the climate change effect which are four main goals of the global SDGs.",,"The proposed greenhouse system is effective in recovering the extra solar radiation, which is not needed by the plants, to produce fresh water via on-roof transparent solar stills (TSS) and reduce the power consumption by cooling, heating and ventilation systems. ",,,Medium,"the average temperature inside the GH can be increased during winter to 19  C due to GH effect while the average ambient temperature is 14  C. Furthermore, the average GH temperature can be reduced to 25  C while the average ambient temperature is 27  C with solar intensity 900 W/m2 during summer. The system can produce 6, 4 and 2 L/m2day of fresh water with 1.39, 0.89 and 0.19 kW hr/m2 day electrical power consumption respectively on the maximum radiation day and can produce the same quantities of water with 1.47, 0.93 and 0.18 kW hr/m2 day power consumption respectively on the hottest day. The system can only produce a maximum amount of water of 2.44 L/m2 day during the coldest day and 4 L/m2 day during the day of minimum radiation with an electrical power consumption of 0.77 and 1.08 kW hr/m2 day, respectively.",,,This work investigates the performance of agricultural GH integrated with on-roof transparent solar still units and equipped with a chilled water condenser at the exit of the GH cavity. The system utilizes the excess solar energy to reduce the GH cooling load and produce fresh water from solar stills. The other amount of the fresh water is produced from the condenser which recovers the water during the plant transpiration,308
1890,"Salah, A.H., et al.",2017,Analytical investigation of different operational scenarios of a novel greenhouse combined with solar stills,Academic-peer reviewed,"Borg-Elarab, Egypt",Sub-national,,,,,17,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Applying this new innovative combined greenhouse system can satisfy many targets such as food security, water production, energy generation and reducing the climate change effect which are four main goals of the global SDGs.",,"The proposed greenhouse system is effective in recovering the extra solar radiation, which is not needed by the plants, to produce fresh water via on-roof transparent solar stills (TSS) and reduce the power consumption by cooling, heating and ventilation systems. ",,,Medium,"the average temperature inside the GH can be increased during winter to 19  C due to GH effect while the average ambient temperature is 14  C. Furthermore, the average GH temperature can be reduced to 25  C while the average ambient temperature is 27  C with solar intensity 900 W/m2 during summer. The system can produce 6, 4 and 2 L/m2day of fresh water with 1.39, 0.89 and 0.19 kW hr/m2 day electrical power consumption respectively on the maximum radiation day and can produce the same quantities of water with 1.47, 0.93 and 0.18 kW hr/m2 day power consumption respectively on the hottest day. The system can only produce a maximum amount of water of 2.44 L/m2 day during the coldest day and 4 L/m2 day during the day of minimum radiation with an electrical power consumption of 0.77 and 1.08 kW hr/m2 day, respectively.",,,This work investigates the performance of agricultural GH integrated with on-roof transparent solar still units and equipped with a chilled water condenser at the exit of the GH cavity. The system utilizes the excess solar energy to reduce the GH cooling load and produce fresh water from solar stills. The other amount of the fresh water is produced from the condenser which recovers the water during the plant transpiration,308
1891,"Salah, A.H., et al.",2017,Analytical investigation of different operational scenarios of a novel greenhouse combined with solar stills,Academic-peer reviewed,"Borg-Elarab, Egypt",Sub-national,,,,,17,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Applying this new innovative combined greenhouse system can satisfy many targets such as food security, water production, energy generation and reducing the climate change effect which are four main goals of the global SDGs.",,"The proposed greenhouse system is effective in recovering the extra solar radiation, which is not needed by the plants, to produce fresh water via on-roof transparent solar stills (TSS) and reduce the power consumption by cooling, heating and ventilation systems. ",,,Medium,"the average temperature inside the GH can be increased during winter to 19  C due to GH effect while the average ambient temperature is 14  C. Furthermore, the average GH temperature can be reduced to 25  C while the average ambient temperature is 27  C with solar intensity 900 W/m2 during summer. The system can produce 6, 4 and 2 L/m2day of fresh water with 1.39, 0.89 and 0.19 kW hr/m2 day electrical power consumption respectively on the maximum radiation day and can produce the same quantities of water with 1.47, 0.93 and 0.18 kW hr/m2 day power consumption respectively on the hottest day. The system can only produce a maximum amount of water of 2.44 L/m2 day during the coldest day and 4 L/m2 day during the day of minimum radiation with an electrical power consumption of 0.77 and 1.08 kW hr/m2 day, respectively.",,,This work investigates the performance of agricultural GH integrated with on-roof transparent solar still units and equipped with a chilled water condenser at the exit of the GH cavity. The system utilizes the excess solar energy to reduce the GH cooling load and produce fresh water from solar stills. The other amount of the fresh water is produced from the condenser which recovers the water during the plant transpiration,308
1892,"Salah, A.H., et al.",2017,Analytical investigation of different operational scenarios of a novel greenhouse combined with solar stills,Academic-peer reviewed,"Borg-Elarab, Egypt",Sub-national,,,,,17,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Applying this new innovative combined greenhouse system can satisfy many targets such as food security, water production, energy generation and reducing the climate change effect which are four main goals of the global SDGs.",,"The proposed greenhouse system is effective in recovering the extra solar radiation, which is not needed by the plants, to produce fresh water via on-roof transparent solar stills (TSS) and reduce the power consumption by cooling, heating and ventilation systems. ",,,Medium,"the average temperature inside the GH can be increased during winter to 19  C due to GH effect while the average ambient temperature is 14  C. Furthermore, the average GH temperature can be reduced to 25  C while the average ambient temperature is 27  C with solar intensity 900 W/m2 during summer. The system can produce 6, 4 and 2 L/m2day of fresh water with 1.39, 0.89 and 0.19 kW hr/m2 day electrical power consumption respectively on the maximum radiation day and can produce the same quantities of water with 1.47, 0.93 and 0.18 kW hr/m2 day power consumption respectively on the hottest day. The system can only produce a maximum amount of water of 2.44 L/m2 day during the coldest day and 4 L/m2 day during the day of minimum radiation with an electrical power consumption of 0.77 and 1.08 kW hr/m2 day, respectively.",,,This work investigates the performance of agricultural GH integrated with on-roof transparent solar still units and equipped with a chilled water condenser at the exit of the GH cavity. The system utilizes the excess solar energy to reduce the GH cooling load and produce fresh water from solar stills. The other amount of the fresh water is produced from the condenser which recovers the water during the plant transpiration,308
1893,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.4,2.4,12,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Using this compost on urban and peri-urban areas for improving soil quality and enhancing food production would contribute to achieving SDG target 2.4 which takes aim at sustainable food production and improved land and soil quality.,,,,,Strong,,,"Such initiatives (related to composting see p. 631), if economically successful and managed properly in terms of working conditions, help achieving SDG 1 (end poverty) and SDG 8, which is about sustainable economic growth and decent work for all.","The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",631
1894,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.4,3.9,12,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Illnesses such as cholera, meningitis and dysentery are often associated with the lack of proper waste disposal [5]. The health aspect and its economic dimension add to the increasing environmental problems of improper waste management such as loss and contamination of soil and water resources and loss of other resources in dumpsites, all issues being closely related",,,,,Strong,"The capital city Maputo stands out as the city with the highest production of waste in Mozambique. Waste generation in the inner city sums up to 1 kg per day per person, compared to 0.56 kg per day per person in suburban areas [16]. The 1.7 million inhabitants in the city of Maputo produce a total of 676 000 kg/day of MSW and the total waste production is close to 980 000 kg/day when industrial waste is added. In rural areas, such as Niassa province solid waste generation does not exceed 50 000 kg/day. Material flow analysis for the city of Maputo revealed that waste generation increased from 397 million kilogram in 2007 to 437 million kilogram in 2014 [17]. Data on MSW collection and composition is only available for the capital. For other parts of Mozambique only estimates exist.",,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",622
1895,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.4,6.3,12,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly several targets of SDG 12, which is about ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns are relevant in this regard: 12.5 targeting reduced waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse; SDG 12.2 targeting management and efficient use of natural resources; SDG 12.3 aiming to reduce food waste and SDG 12.4 focusing on the sound management of chemicals and all wastes and the reduction of their release to air, water and soil. Reducing the amount of waste released into the environment would add to achieving SDG 6.3 targeting the improvement of water quality by reducing pollution) and SDG 15.1 focusing on the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems. Impacts on health are captured in SDG 3.9 aiming to reduce the number of illnesses and deaths from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. Further co-benefits for other SDGs could be achieved by integrating MSW management into a nexus approach as outlined in the following subsections providing some examples of how Mozambique may be capitalizing on the increase in the MSW flow from a nexus perspective.","In general, adopting and implementing policies for managing MSW would be instrumental for achieving respective targets of the SDGs briefly mentioned in the Section 1—Introduction. ",,,,Strong,,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",630
1896,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.4,11.1,12,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"With the support of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), workers collect MSW in handcarts from each household and carry it to the public dumps where the secondary collection takes effect. These projects provide income to about 300 families and basic collection services for an additional 7% of the total population of Maputo. ","The NGOs have assisted with the recognition of the initiatives by the authorities and succeeded in including them in the MSW collection plan. Small-scale waste collection enterprises are now being financed by the municipality [18]. As these projects improved the local waste collection profoundly, the municipal governments plan to implement the system in other suburbs as well.",,,,Strong,Karani and Da Costa [23] reported that in 2006 the municipal waste collection covered about 70% of the city center and 27–50% of the suburban area of Maputo. As per the latest figures [18] Maputo coverage has increased to about 82% while the national average is in the range from 40–65% [23]. The collection of waste that was disposed at the local dumpsites in the inner city of Maputo increased profoundly from 76 million kilograms in 2007 to 253 million kilograms in 2014. This increased collection reduced the uncollected waste mass from 300 million to 158 million kilograms [17]. Waste collection in the Beira municipality covers about 75% of the waste produced. Another initiative called the ―municipalities development program‖ that was implemented in the North and centre provinces of Mozambique was also targeting to improve the MSW management services [20]. The results of this three-year program have shown that the coverage is still limited in most provinces and that infrastructure development does not automatically result in increasing collection coverage.,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",624
1897,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.4,11.6,12,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This MSW-derived compost could be also used as daily cover material at disposal sites such as Hulene dump to control odor, vectors, wind issues (uncovered waste blown by wind) and some infiltration [5], thus addressing SDG 11.6 targeting air quality and waste management in cities.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",631
1898,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.4,15.1,12,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Particularly several targets of SDG 12, which is about ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns are relevant in this regard: 12.5 targeting reduced waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse; SDG 12.2 targeting management and efficient use of natural resources; SDG 12.3 aiming to reduce food waste and SDG 12.4 focusing on the sound management of chemicals and all wastes and the reduction of their release to air, water and soil. Reducing the amount of waste released into the environment would add to achieving SDG 6.3 targeting the improvement of water quality by reducing pollution) and SDG 15.1 focusing on the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems. Impacts on health are captured in SDG 3.9 aiming to reduce the number of illnesses and deaths from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. Further co-benefits for other SDGs could be achieved by integrating MSW management into a nexus approach as outlined in the following subsections providing some examples of how Mozambique may be capitalizing on the increase in the MSW flow from a nexus perspective.","In general, adopting and implementing policies for managing MSW would be instrumental for achieving respective targets of the SDGs briefly mentioned in the Section 1—Introduction. ",,,,Strong,,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",630
1899,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.5,7.1,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"A feasibility study assessing the location of a possible biomass power plant found that a proposed power plant close to Maputo could provide for up to 32% of the energy consumed in the city [41]. This would contribute substantially to achieving SDG target 7.1 (access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services) and 7.2 (increase substantially the share of renewable energy).",,,,,Strong,A feasibility study assessing the location of a possible biomass power plant found that a proposed power plant close to Maputo could provide for up to 32% of the energy consumed in the city [41].,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",632
1900,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.5,7.2,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"While the organic fraction of waste belongs to MSW management, properly designed integrated management model of MSW can also bring benefits to the soil and land management through compost and biochar or the energy sector through biogas and incineration. In addition, increased recovery and recycling of organic as well as traditional recoverable materials such as paper, plastic, and metal (will also make a considerable reduction in the volume of MSW that needs a place for final disposal.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",630
1901,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,12.5,12.2,12,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"While the organic fraction of waste belongs to MSW management, properly designed integrated management model of MSW can also bring benefits to the soil and land management through compost and biochar or the energy sector through biogas and incineration. In addition, increased recovery and recycling of organic as well as traditional recoverable materials such as paper, plastic, and metal (will also make a considerable reduction in the volume of MSW that needs a place for final disposal.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",630
1902,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,16.6,12.4,16,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Previous research has identified the lack of knowledge and insufficient service infrastructure as the main reasons behind the inadequate waste management practices in Mozambique [3,5]. Low income, poor legal framework and institutional development as well as limited access to capital are further constraints. Industry around waste streams and recycling services have not evolved yet. Illiteracy and low education levels pose a challenge for waste management services and awareness campaigns. Initiatives taken by the international stakeholders are often ineffective due to poor coordination and thus have not fostered much sustainable changes in waste management","The already existing legislation and policy framework for solid waste management in Mozambique is mainly concerned with the requirements for licensing and auditing of public and private institutions involved in solid waste management. It remains very general and weak in the provision of policy for the reuse and recycling of waste. Obligations mentioned in the framework such as waste reduction, waste separation at the source and treatment before deposition are rarely enforced. Often responsibilities are appointed to ―all waste-generating or waste-handling entities‖ leaving a lot of room for interpretation. According to Cambule and Pereira [33] new regulations on MSW management have been introduced. It remains to be seen if and how they are implemented and enforced. Maputo and Beira have annual solid waste management plans and programs [18]. Further municipalities are currently producing such master plans. The government of Mozambique is in the process of introducing a strategy for integrated MSW management to foster the technical development of MSW management and to create a sustainable institutional and management framework by 2025 [18]. This strategy aspires to involve different stakeholders in MSW management and incorporates design, implementation and maintenance of the MSW management systems. Focus of the strategy is the construction of proper landfills in the future with methane flaring, the construction of waste transfer and recycling centers and the use of waste to produce energy.",,,,Strong,"The capital city Maputo stands out as the city with the highest production of waste in Mozambique. Waste generation in the inner city sums up to 1 kg per day per person, compared to 0.56 kg per day per person in suburban areas [16]. The 1.7 million inhabitants in the city of Maputo produce a total of 676 000 kg/day of MSW and the total waste production is close to 980 000 kg/day when industrial waste is added. In rural areas, such as Niassa province solid waste generation does not exceed 50 000 kg/day. Material flow analysis for the city of Maputo revealed that waste generation increased from 397 million kilogram in 2007 to 437 million kilogram in 2014 [17]. Data on MSW collection and composition is only available for the capital. For other parts of Mozambique only estimates exist.",,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",623
1903,"Sallway, J. et al.",2017,Challenges and opportunities in municipal solid waste management in Mozambique: a review in the light of nexus thinking,Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,17.1,12.4,17,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Before the reintroduction of the tax in 2003 extended public campaigns explaining the need and the use of the tax were run. Furthermore, the payment of the tax was introduced being attached to the electricity bill—an already established collection system covering 90% of the households in Maputo. This combination with a basic facility increased the residents’ motivation to pay the tax. The strategy of coupling the waste fee to an already existing public facility proved to be very effective and shows that the way of collecting taxes is an important means in the development of a waste fee system.",,,,,Strong,p.632-634,,,"The paper's focus is on municipal solid waste, a still untapped resource in many and especially developing countries.",633
1904,"Sarkar, C., and C. Webster",2017,Urban environments and human health: current trends and future directions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.1,3.9,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Housing-level environmental exposures affect individual lifestyle and health and include exposures to indoor microbiome, health-inhibiting physical conditions, indoor air pollution including those from biomass fuel in developing countries, environmental tobacco smoke, and residential radon. Housing-level environmental factors often interact with lifestyle-level factors to produce effect on health.",,,,,Strong,,,,,37
1905,"Sarkar, C., and C. Webster",2017,Urban environments and human health: current trends and future directions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.1,10.2,11,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The interaction between place and socioeconomic status in shaping socio-spatial inequality and deprivation and their association with multiple health outcomes have been established,"Existing social, urban and public health policies further modify the relationships",,,,Strong,,,further impacts SDG 3,,36
1906,"Sarkar, C., and C. Webster",2017,Urban environments and human health: current trends and future directions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.2,3.4,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The multi-dimensional components of urban built environments (BE); their density, diversity, design and accessibility to specific destinations and public transport all constitute key aspects of an individual’s activity and social space and influence behaviour and health",,"One of the pathways via which BE influences health is through physical activity-related mechanism with evidence of direct links between BE and walking, physical activity, obesity, cardio-metabolic diseases and mental health. Key attributes of BE (within functional residential neighbourhoods) related to active travel and social capital include density, land use mix, service destinations, street level physical accessibility; access to urban green space including street trees, parks and sports facilities; as well as composite measures of sprawl and walkability",,,Strong,,,,,35
1907,"Sarkar, C., and C. Webster",2017,Urban environments and human health: current trends and future directions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.3,3.4,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"there is now a strong consensus on the significant role played by multiple multilevel attributes of our cities’ environments in shaping lifestyle, health and well-being.",,"Healthy environments and cities by design (supply-side) and by demand management can shape and promote healthier behaviour and lifestyles and produce higher cost effectiveness ratios in health service provision, thereby reducing future health costs ",,,Strong,"The Global Burden of Disease Study estimated that of 52.8 million premature deaths worldwide in 2010, 65.3% were attributed to non-communicable diseases and 9.6% to injuries, the rest to other causes. Modifiable environmental risk factors are estimated to account for 12.6 million (23%) deaths, 22% of global disease burden in disability-adjusted life years and 26% of all deaths in children under 5","Methodologically, the challenge however is to develop a more robust evidence base of environment–health associations as well as an in-depth understanding about causal pathways between environmental exposures; behaviour and life style; physiology and genetics; and disease, taking into account the complex non-linear interactions between all causal factors",,,33
1908,"Sarkar, C., and C. Webster",2017,Urban environments and human health: current trends and future directions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.6,3.9,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Pathogens in human-modified environments pose a major threat to health. Anthropogenic pollution of common-pool natural environmental resources (air, water and land) and its impacts on human health constitute another major challenge",,"strong links between air pollution, morbidity and mortality have been well established. Noise pollution has been associated with both auditory and non-auditory effects. Detrimental effects of water pollution, especially those of heavy metals arsenic, and fluoride in potable water have been proven. Specific hazardous environments including exposures to waste disposal sites and landfills, asbestos, powerlines have also been found to be detrimental to human health. ",,,Strong,"Hygiene, sanitation and water together account for 4.2% of all premature mortalities, mostly in developing countries",,,,34
1909,"Sarkar, C., and C. Webster",2017,Urban environments and human health: current trends and future directions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.7,3.9,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,quality of green spaces have been linked to positive health outcomes,,The beneficial role of natural environment as therapeutic healing spaces have also been recognized. Green and blue environments act as salutogenic spaces for natural healing and recovery from physiological and psychological stress; provide cleaner environments with reduced exposures to risks; promote physical activity; and encourage social interactions,,,Strong,,,,,35
1910,"Sarkar, C., and C. Webster",2017,Urban environments and human health: current trends and future directions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The interaction between place and socioeconomic status in shaping socio-spatial inequality and deprivation and their association with multiple health outcomes have been established,"Existing social, urban and public health policies further modify the relationships",,,,Strong,,,further impacts SDG 3,,36
1911,"Schaubroeck, T., and B. Rugani",2017,A Revision of What Life Cycle Sustainability Assessment Should Entail: Towards Modeling the Net Impact on Human Well-Being,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,14,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"With regard to human health, the maintenance of nature is needed since natural capital is required to fulfill the requirements for the maintenance of mankind",,,,,,,,,The aim of this study is to provide a preliminary roadmap that suggests potential solutions to improve our understanding of what shall be actually sustained and the way damages and benefits on these areas of protection are addressed in sustainability assessment.,"1468, 1469"
1912,"Schaubroeck, T., and B. Rugani",2017,A Revision of What Life Cycle Sustainability Assessment Should Entail: Towards Modeling the Net Impact on Human Well-Being,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Regarding the first issue, our conclusion is that human well‐being, encompassing health and happiness, is the primary AoP. This is based on the argument that the sustainability concept is inherently anthropocentric. In this regard, other entities such as ecosystems as a whole are sustained in light of human well‐being",,,,,,,,,The aim of this study is to provide a preliminary roadmap that suggests potential solutions to improve our understanding of what shall be actually sustained and the way damages and benefits on these areas of protection are addressed in sustainability assessment.,1464
1913,"Schaubroeck, T., and B. Rugani",2017,A Revision of What Life Cycle Sustainability Assessment Should Entail: Towards Modeling the Net Impact on Human Well-Being,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"With regard to human health, the maintenance of nature is needed since natural capital is required to fulfill the requirements for the maintenance of mankind",,,,,,,,,The aim of this study is to provide a preliminary roadmap that suggests potential solutions to improve our understanding of what shall be actually sustained and the way damages and benefits on these areas of protection are addressed in sustainability assessment.,"1468, 1469"
1914,"Schütze, F., et al.",2017,The role of sustainable investment in climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,Europe,Regional,,,9.4,7.1,9,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Reaching the Sustainable Development Goals, including climate action and affordable clean energy, requires a fundamental socio-economic transformation  accompanied by substantial investment in low-carbon infrastructure.","The usual analyses of climate policy show negative economic effects of emission targets, because they are treated as an additional constraint to the optimization process. If ambitious climate policy (towards 1.5  C) should bring about more desirable economic outcomes, it should not be implemented in isolation. Instead, green growth policies should be the core of a wider economic program aimed at increasing investment levels and enhancing technical innovation. Green public procurement and green public investment will be an important element, as well as implementing credible long-term green growth policies that restore confidence and leverage additional private investment ","Technical progress partially offsets the negative economic effect of introducing an ambitious emission constraint. The introduction of adaptive expectations alone, amplifies the negative effect, because it depresses sales expectations of firms. An investment program leads to crowding-out of consumption with investment and therefore to less efficient resource allocation. Technical progress is necessary for positive economic effects of climate policy, but not sufficient. Combining technical progress with an investment program or adaptive expectations leads to positive economic effects. ",,,,,"For drawing conclusions on the magnitude of the effect additional empirical validation and sensitivity analysis are required. Generalizing these results to other countries requires more in depth analysis at the (EU) member state level as well as an extension of the analysis to other countries. Additionally, research on the role of the financial market is required to address the question of how to finance such an investment program, how potential funding constraints might reduce the positive effect or whether credit-financed investment can reduce the crowding-out effect.",,"Reaching the SDGs requires a fundamental socio-economic transformation accompanied by substantial investment in low-carbon infrastructure. Such a transition represents a non-marginal change, driven by behavioral factors and systemic interactions. However, typical economic models used to assess a sustainability transition focus on marginal changes around a local optimum, which—by construction—lead to negative effects. Thus, they do not allow evaluating a sustainability transition that might have substantial positive effects. This paper examines which mechanisms need to be included in a standard computable general equilibrium model to overcome these limitations and to give a more comprehensive view of the effects of climate change mitigation. Model was applied for Europe.",14
1915,"Schütze, F., et al.",2017,The role of sustainable investment in climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,Europe,Regional,,,9.4,13.2,9,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Reaching the Sustainable Development Goals, including climate action and affordable clean energy, requires a fundamental socio-economic transformation accompanied by substantial investment in low-carbon infrastructure.","The usual analyses of climate policy show negative economic effects of emission targets, because they are treated as an additional constraint to the optimization process. If ambitious climate policy (towards 1.5  C) should bring about more desirable economic outcomes, it should not be implemented in isolation. Instead, green growth policies should be the core of a wider economic program aimed at increasing investment levels and enhancing technical innovation. Green public procurement and green public investment will be an important element, as well as implementing credible long-term green growth policies that restore confidence and leverage additional private investment ","Technical progress partially offsets the negative economic effect of introducing an ambitious emission constraint. The introduction of adaptive expectations alone, amplifies the negative effect, because it depresses sales expectations of firms. An investment program leads to crowding-out of consumption with investment and therefore to less efficient resource allocation. Technical progress is necessary for positive economic effects of climate policy, but not sufficient. Combining technical progress with an investment program or adaptive expectations leads to positive economic effects. ",,,,,"For drawing conclusions on the magnitude of the effect additional empirical validation and sensitivity analysis are required. Generalizing these results to other countries requires more in depth analysis at the (EU) member state level as well as an extension of the analysis to other countries. Additionally, research on the role of the financial market is required to address the question of how to finance such an investment program, how potential funding constraints might reduce the positive effect or whether credit-financed investment can reduce the crowding-out effect.",,"Reaching the SDGs requires a fundamental socio-economic transformation accompanied by substantial investment in low-carbon infrastructure. Such a transition represents a non-marginal change, driven by behavioral factors and systemic interactions. However, typical economic models used to assess a sustainability transition focus on marginal changes around a local optimum, which—by construction—lead to negative effects. Thus, they do not allow evaluating a sustainability transition that might have substantial positive effects. This paper examines which mechanisms need to be included in a standard computable general equilibrium model to overcome these limitations and to give a more comprehensive view of the effects of climate change mitigation. Model was applied for Europe.",14
1916,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Water used for agriculture (i.e., irrigation, food processing, transport, etc.) is the main component of the global water footprint.",,"The actual water footprints of agriculture are region-specific and depend on the relative importance of the agricultural sector, the size of the agricultural production area, soil and groundwater conditions, weather conditions, efficiency of agricultural production and irrigation systems, and water management practices.",,,Strong,"according to sampling data from 1995–2005, consumption by the agricultural sector ranked highest within all countries and the total global water consumption in agriculture was 92%",,,,8
1917,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In case of the water footprint of energy, two indicators are commonly used, the water footprint of primary energy production and the water footprint of electricity.",,"The factors for primary energy production depend on technologies to extract/mine, process, and transport the energy carriers. The highest footprint factors are associated with energy crops. The major amount is needed for mining. Factors for electricity production, on the other hand, change with fuel, cooling technology, and turbine type. Among renewable technologies, the estimate of footprint factors for hydropower is highly site-specific and therefore commonly left out of general compilations, but provides estimates on the global water footprint of hydropower. Most factors range between 102–106 L per MWh. In comparison, solar PV is relatively more efficient with values between 5–100 L per MWh.",,,Strong,"For example, sugarcane ethanol production consumes between 2000–3,000,000 L per ton of oil equivalent (toe). Whereas fossil fuels range between 1–200,000 L per ton.",,,,"7, 8"
1918,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.2,3.9,7,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The expansion of renewable energies is particularly important as it reduces the dependence on external sources of energy (and provides a hedge against international markets) and simultaneously improves air quality (contributing to quality self-sufficiency criteria),,,,,Strong,,,,,
1919,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.2,11.6,7,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The expansion of renewable energies is particularly important as it reduces the dependence on external sources of energy (and provides a hedge against international markets) and simultaneously improves air quality (contributing to quality self-sufficiency criteria),,,,,Strong,,,,,
1920,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Energy has a wide range of uses in food production,,"It is required to work the soil, to irrigate the fields, to warm greenhouses and to process raw crops. A large amount of energy is also required for the production of fertilizers and pesticides used in agriculture.",,,Strong,,,,,8
1921,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Food production also requires land as an input,,"Land-use efficiencies (i.e., footprint factors) for food production vary with the type of crop and the dietary traditions across nations. Also, differences in cultivation methods result in substantial variations in the production yields for a given area of agricultural land.",,,Strong,,,,,
1922,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Land is also used in the provision of water.,,The amount required by water bodies is closely related to the geography and the local hydrological conditions.,,,Strong,,,,,
1923,"Schwanitz, V.J., et al.",2017,Assessing the Impact of Renewable Energy on Regional Sustainability - A Comparative Study of Sogn og Fjordane (Norway) and Okinawa (Japan),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Energy production requires land for a variety of uses,,"for example, large amounts of land are required for extracting resources for producing primary energy (i.e., mining activities) and establishing power plants and electricity transmission facilities. Among the renewable energy technologies, land is especially important for wind farms and hydropower installations. Also, the land requirements for growing biomass can be considerable. Overall, the land occupation by energy technologies is proportional to generation capacities. Thus, the land footprint of energy can be obtained from technology specific land-use efficiencies.",,,Strong,,,,,8
1924,"Schwerhoff, G., et al.",2017,Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,1.1,13,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Carbon prices are not only the economically most efficient policy instrument to internalize the social costs of emissions, they also generate public revenues. These revenues can be recycled to households in a way which offsets potential adverse distributional effects of climate policy. A straightforward approach is to pay a “carbon dividend” to households, which has a progressive effect on the income distribution: as all households receive the same amount, poorer households benefit more relative to their income since they pay less carbon taxes in absolute terms.","Stakeholder involvement, meaning a well-designed policy dialogue with the most relevant groups, is a proven way of addressing the challenge of resistance or veto power to the implementation of climate policy, by addressing issues such as income and wealth distributional effects of climate policy, politicial resistance of adversely affected interest groups, and veto power exercised by various actors.",,,,Strong,,,,,4
1925,"Schwerhoff, G., et al.",2017,Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,1.4,13,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Carbon prices are not only the economically most efficient policy instrument to internalize the social costs of emissions, they also generate public revenues. These revenues can be recycled to households in a way which offsets potential adverse distributional effects of climate policy. A straightforward approach is to pay a “carbon dividend” to households, which has a progressive effect on the income distribution: as all households receive the same amount, poorer households benefit more relative to their income since they pay less carbon taxes in absolute terms.","Stakeholder involvement, meaning a well-designed policy dialogue with the most relevant groups, is a proven way of addressing the challenge of resistance or veto power to the implementation of climate policy, by addressing issues such as income and wealth distributional effects of climate policy, politicial resistance of adversely affected interest groups, and veto power exercised by various actors.",,,,Strong,,,,,4
1926,"Schwerhoff, G., et al.",2017,Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,10.3,13,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Climate policies, including removing fossil fuel subsidies or imposing carbon prices, can be designed in a way that is both efficient in addressing climate change and results in a fair distribution of the associated costs.","Stakeholder involvement, meaning a well-designed policy dialogue with the most relevant groups, is a proven way of addressing the challenge of resistance or veto power to the implementation of climate policy, by addressing issues such as income and wealth distributional effects of climate policy, politicial resistance of adversely affected interest groups, and veto power exercised by various actors.","In most cases the cost burden of such climate policies does not fall evenly on households. Depending on the carbon intensity of consumption for different income groups, the direct effect of climate policy can be regressive, neutral or progressive, meaning that low-income households would pay more than proportionally, the same, or less than proportionally, respectively, than high-income households. In developed countries, empirical evidence indicates that climate policy would in many cases be regressive. This implies that low-income households would lose a higher share of their consumption than high-income households. To avoid climate policy to be regressive, a comprehensive approach can neutralize these distributional effects and turn such a policy into being progressive. Carbon pricing, in the form of a carbon tax or an emission trading system, is widely recommended by economists as a particularly suitable form of climate policy.",,,Strong,,,,,1
1927,"Schwerhoff, G., et al.",2017,Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,13.1,13,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Climate policies, including removing fossil fuel subsidies or imposing carbon prices, can be designed in a way that is both efficient in addressing climate change and results in a fair distribution of the associated costs.","Stakeholder involvement, meaning a well-designed policy dialogue with the most relevant groups, is a proven way of addressing the challenge of resistance or veto power to the implementation of climate policy, by addressing issues such as income and wealth distributional effects of climate policy, politicial resistance of adversely affected interest groups, and veto power exercised by various actors.","The objective of climate policy is to mitigate anthropogenic climate change. Climate policy often has co-benefits, such as improved local air quality. Households most affected by local air pollution would hence also benefit most from climate policy. Energy intensive industries are under strong competitive pressure to move production to countries with cheapest production conditions. Although there is no evidence that climate policy does indeed cause firms to relocate to unregulated countries, the potential job loss in energy intensive industries is a concern to decision makers.  ",,,Strong,Avoiding a ton of CO2 has been estimated to reduce health damages worth 50 to 380 US$ ,"Several options to avoid the job loss are available e.g. “grandfathering” pollution permits to affected firms, output-based rebating which would reward firms for the product and tax them for emissions (not tested yet), or reduce labor taxes in the affected industry to compensate firms and reward them for job creation at the same time (not tested yet). In developing countries, carbon pricing revenues can be used to reduce inequality through investments in low carbon infrastructure including transport.",Links to SDGs 8 and 2,,1
1928,"Schwerhoff, G., et al.",2017,Policy options for a socially balanced climate policy,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,13.3,13,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Climate policies, including removing fossil fuel subsidies or imposing carbon prices, can be designed in a way that is both efficient in addressing climate change and results in a fair distribution of the associated costs.","Stakeholder involvement, meaning a well-designed policy dialogue with the most relevant groups, is a proven way of addressing the challenge of resistance or veto power to the implementation of climate policy, by addressing issues such as income and wealth distributional effects of climate policy, politicial resistance of adversely affected interest groups, and veto power exercised by various actors.","The objective of climate policy is to mitigate anthropogenic climate change. Climate policy often has co-benefits, such as improved local air quality. Households most affected by local air pollution would hence also benefit most from climate policy. Energy intensive industries are under strong competitive pressure to move production to countries with cheapest production conditions. Although there is no evidence that climate policy does indeed cause firms to relocate to unregulated countries, the potential job loss in energy intensive industries is a concern to decision makers. ",,,Strong,Avoiding a ton of CO2 has been estimated to reduce health damages worth 50 to 380 US$ ,"Several options to avoid the job loss are available e.g. “grandfathering” pollution permits to affected firms, output-based rebating which would reward firms for the product and tax them for emissions (not tested yet), or reduce labor taxes in the affected industry to compensate firms and reward them for job creation at the same time (not tested yet). In developing countries, carbon pricing revenues can be used to reduce inequality through investments in low carbon infrastructure including transport.",Links to SDGs 8 and 2,,1
1929,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,6.4,7.1,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"as regional energy demand escalated, aggravating regional power outages, a ‘race to the top’ was renewed in the Himalayan, Andean and Southeast Asian regions. In this wave of projects, estimated hydropower benefits outweighed irrigation, leading to debates once again about run of river versus multipurpose storage projects",,,,,Strong,,,impacting on SDG 2,,"27, 28"
1930,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Approximately 20 million hectares worldwide is estimated to be under agriculture that relies on wastewater reuse,one specific knowledge gap that prevents the realization of efficiency and productivity gains relates to a lack of consistent and agreed upon water quality standards for different crop and production systems. This knowledge gap constrains the development of standardized policy guidelines that could facilitate wastewater reuse.,"Wastewater reuse has tremendous scope to advance the nexus through fostering opportunities for multiple uses of water. But although a huge potential exists for wastewater reuse in agriculture, its effectiveness as an adaptation pathway may depend on critical aspects of local farming practices, market conditions, crop varieties and implementation of cost-effective treatment measures that facilitate wastewater reuse.  It has been argued that policy support for encouraging wastewater reuse for agriculture after adequate treatment would increase water use efficiency in agriculture. Some have even argued that when wastewater is managed better, significant economic benefits can be derived in developing countries through reuse for productive purposes like agriculture, kitchen gardens and poultry rearing. Further, by encouraging freshwater swaps, wastewater reuse in agriculture could also potentially enhance source sustainability of water supplies, especially to urban centres.",,,Strong,,,,,29
1931,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,7.3,7.2,7,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The water and food dimensions of renewable energy futures will require improved technology, management and policy in order to diminish the energy intensity and dependence of the water and agricultural sectors. ",nexus is simultaneously about resource recovery through efficiency improvements and the recovery of saved resources in the process of efficiency conversions  Environmental governance in developing and emerging economies suffers from fragmented approaches to planning and policy implementation.,,,,Strong,,"Localized forms of production, low-impact agricultural practices, surface- and gravity-irrigation including through rainwater harvesting, all offer important potentials.",impacting on SDGs 2 and 6,,27
1932,"Scott, C.A., et al.",2015,The Water-Energy-Food Nexus: Enhancing Adaptive Capacity to Complex Global Challenges,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,9.4,7.2,9,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The water and food dimensions of renewable energy futures will require improved technology, management and policy in order to diminish the energy intensity and dependence of the water and agricultural sectors. ",nexus is simultaneously about resource recovery through efficiency improvements and the recovery of saved resources in the process of efficiency conversions  Environmental governance in developing and emerging economies suffers from fragmented approaches to planning and policy implementation.,,,,Strong,,"Localized forms of production, low-impact agricultural practices, surface- and gravity-irrigation including through rainwater harvesting, all offer important potentials.",impacting on SDGs 2 and 6,,27
1933,"Selmier, W.T. and A. Newenham-Kahindi",2017,Under African skies - mining TNCs in Africa and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,East and Central Africa,Regional,,,12.6,5.5,12,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Since 2010, AngloGold Ashanti has engaged directly with community stakeholders to promote sustainable development through local entrepreneurship...other TNCs in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo relied on NGOs and ended up having a limited sustainable development impact on communities. In both Kibali and Mongbwalu, AngloGold Ashanti helped to transform the livelihood of women, youth and communities through a mix of mutual learning about all parties’ positions and goals, co-creative engagement, and support and capacity empowerment.",,,,,Strong,see table 4 on page 128,,,"essay looks at mining TNCs’ legitimacy under African skies by outlining how two mining TNCs respond to three specific SDGs: Goal 5, “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”; Goal 8, promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth; full and productive employment; and decent work for all; and Goal 16, “promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels”.",126
1934,"Selmier, W.T. and A. Newenham-Kahindi",2017,Under African skies - mining TNCs in Africa and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,East and Central Africa,Regional,,,12.6,8.3,12,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Since 2010, AngloGold Ashanti has engaged directly with community stakeholders to promote sustainable development through local entrepreneurship...other TNCs in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo relied on NGOs and ended up having a limited sustainable development impact on communities. In both Kibali and Mongbwalu, AngloGold Ashanti helped to transform the livelihood of women, youth and communities through a mix of mutual learning about all parties’ positions and goals, co-creative engagement, and support and capacity empowerment.",,,,,Strong,see table 4 on page 128,,,"essay looks at mining TNCs’ legitimacy under African skies by outlining how two mining TNCs respond to three specific SDGs: Goal 5, “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”; Goal 8, promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth; full and productive employment; and decent work for all; and Goal 16, “promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels”.",126
1935,"Selmier, W.T. and A. Newenham-Kahindi",2017,Under African skies - mining TNCs in Africa and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,East and Central Africa,Regional,,,12.6,16.6,12,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Since 2010, AngloGold Ashanti has engaged directly with community stakeholders to promote sustainable development through local entrepreneurship...other TNCs in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo relied on NGOs and ended up having a limited sustainable development impact on communities. In both Kibali and Mongbwalu, AngloGold Ashanti helped to transform the livelihood of women, youth and communities through a mix of mutual learning about all parties’ positions and goals, co-creative engagement, and support and capacity empowerment.",,,,,Strong,see table 4 on page 128,,,"essay looks at mining TNCs’ legitimacy under African skies by outlining how two mining TNCs respond to three specific SDGs: Goal 5, “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”; Goal 8, promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth; full and productive employment; and decent work for all; and Goal 16, “promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels”.",126
1936,"Selmier, W.T. and A. Newenham-Kahindi",2017,Under African skies - mining TNCs in Africa and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,East and Central Africa,Regional,,,12.6,16.6,12,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Some larger mining companies have made significant corporate social responsibility (CSR) progress and implemented effective sustainable development, thereby boosting their legitimacy. ",,,,,Strong,,,,"essay looks at mining TNCs’ legitimacy under African skies by outlining how two mining TNCs respond to three specific SDGs: Goal 5, “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”; Goal 8, promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth; full and productive employment; and decent work for all; and Goal 16, “promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels”.",119
1937,"Selmier, W.T. and A. Newenham-Kahindi",2017,Under African skies - mining TNCs in Africa and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,East and Central Africa,Regional,,,17.5,12.6,17,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Individually, some African countries have established global, standard, mining codes of conduct; collectively, African governments are organizing to establish regional licensing standards, CSR guidelines and codes of conduct such as the Africa Mining Vision.",,,,,Strong,"Many African countries have implemented specific community development laws which require social and economic development into mining codes and regulations (Campbell, 2009; Dupuy, 2014). The growing list of community development stipulations impels mining TNCs towards sustainable development, while the gradual knitting together of pan-African mining governance demands progress towards the SDGs. Besada and Martin (2015) argue that this shift towards promulgating mining codes with explicit sustainability targets represents Africa’s fourth generation of mining codes (see also Campbell, 2009; Dashwood, 2014; Hilson and Murck, 2000). African country-level mining codes have progressed from (a) simple liberalization (first generation, early 1980s); to (b) recognition, without requirement, of social and environmental concerns linked to mining (second generation, mid-1990s); to (c) mining codes that encouraged investment with benefits for local stakeholders and stricter social and environmental impacts (third generation, turn-of-century); and to (d) a pan-African unified approach characterized as “‘strength in numbers’… [in which] legal harmonization efforts have been noted throughout the continent, including increased monitoring mechanisms, frameworks for improved administrative systems, and single points of contact for licensing and regulatory approvals” (Besada and Martin, 2015: 276). The establishment of an African Mining Vision by the African Union in 2009 created a common framework across Africa to share information on mining TNCs’ overall performance and efficacy of CSR activity, and results have been tied to CSR efficiency and environmental sustainability in many African countries (Besada and Martin, 2015; Dashwood, 2012; Pedro, 2016). Influenced in part by fourth generation-style codes in Africa, similar mining codes are being implemented elsewhere in the world (Hilson and Murck, 2000; Katz-Lavigne, 2017; Prno and Slocombe, 2012). While there remains a gap between implementation, adherence and enforcement in some host countries, permitting and access to new mining sites are increasingly tied to sustainable development in many African countries and elsewhere",,,"essay looks at mining TNCs’ legitimacy under African skies by outlining how two mining TNCs respond to three specific SDGs: Goal 5, “achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”; Goal 8, promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth; full and productive employment; and decent work for all; and Goal 16, “promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels”.",119
1938,"Selomane, O., et al.",2015,Towards integrated social-ecological sustainability indicators: Exploring the contribution and gaps in existing global data,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,2.3,1.1,2,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"globally, NBS (nature based sectors: agriculture, forestry, fisheries) contributed to lifting approximately 18% of all people out of poverty and employed an average of 37% of all employed people during the period 1991 – 2010",,"the magnitude of the contribution of NBS to poverty reduction depends on the developmental status of the country, with higher contributions of NBS to poverty improvements found in low income countries.  Despite a growing urban population globally, most low income countries still have large proportions of rural and peri-urban populations which are usually directly dependent on NBS   NBS contribution to income poverty reduction and employment declined over time for all countries: For low income countries the decline was smaller and the overall contribution remains higher;  Other studies have also shown this pattern as countries transition out of direct dependence on NBS for employment and income generation and NBS contributes relatively less to the economy as it grows; As the economy develops, populations become more urban and less directly dependent on NBS, and other sectors of the economy become more important",,,Strong,,,,,"15, 16"
1939,"Selomane, O., et al.",2015,Towards integrated social-ecological sustainability indicators: Exploring the contribution and gaps in existing global data,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,2.3,8.5,2,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"globally, NBS (nature based sectors: agriculture, forestry, fisheries) contributed to lifting approximately 18% of all people out of poverty and employed an average of 37% of all employed people during the period 1991 – 2010",,"the magnitude of the contribution of NBS to poverty reduction depends on the developmental status of the country, with higher contributions of NBS to poverty improvements found in low income countries.  Despite a growing urban population globally, most low income countries still have large proportions of rural and peri-urban populations which are usually directly dependent on NBS   NBS contribution to income poverty reduction and employment declined over time for all countries: For low income countries the decline was smaller and the overall contribution remains higher;  Other studies have also shown this pattern as countries transition out of direct dependence on NBS for employment and income generation and NBS contributes relatively less to the economy as it grows; As the economy develops, populations become more urban and less directly dependent on NBS, and other sectors of the economy become more important",,,Strong,,,,,"15, 16"
1940,"Selomane, O., et al.",2015,Towards integrated social-ecological sustainability indicators: Exploring the contribution and gaps in existing global data,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,14.4,1.1,14,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"globally, NBS (nature based sectors: agriculture, forestry, fisheries) contributed to lifting approximately 18% of all people out of poverty and employed an average of 37% of all employed people during the period 1991 – 2010",,"the magnitude of the contribution of NBS to poverty reduction depends on the developmental status of the country, with higher contributions of NBS to poverty improvements found in low income countries.  Despite a growing urban population globally, most low income countries still have large proportions of rural and peri-urban populations which are usually directly dependent on NBS   NBS contribution to income poverty reduction and employment declined over time for all countries: For low income countries the decline was smaller and the overall contribution remains higher;  Other studies have also shown this pattern as countries transition out of direct dependence on NBS for employment and income generation and NBS contributes relatively less to the economy as it grows; As the economy develops, populations become more urban and less directly dependent on NBS, and other sectors of the economy become more important",,,Strong,,,,,"15, 16"
1941,"Selomane, O., et al.",2015,Towards integrated social-ecological sustainability indicators: Exploring the contribution and gaps in existing global data,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,14.4,8.5,14,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"globally, NBS (nature based sectors: agriculture, forestry, fisheries) contributed to lifting approximately 18% of all people out of poverty and employed an average of 37% of all employed people during the period 1991 – 2010",,"the magnitude of the contribution of NBS to poverty reduction depends on the developmental status of the country, with higher contributions of NBS to poverty improvements found in low income countries.  Despite a growing urban population globally, most low income countries still have large proportions of rural and peri-urban populations which are usually directly dependent on NBS   NBS contribution to income poverty reduction and employment declined over time for all countries: For low income countries the decline was smaller and the overall contribution remains higher;  Other studies have also shown this pattern as countries transition out of direct dependence on NBS for employment and income generation and NBS contributes relatively less to the economy as it grows; As the economy develops, populations become more urban and less directly dependent on NBS, and other sectors of the economy become more important",,,Strong,,,,,"15, 16"
1942,"Selomane, O., et al.",2015,Towards integrated social-ecological sustainability indicators: Exploring the contribution and gaps in existing global data,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,15.1,3.4,15,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,most common notion of how nature contributes to human wellbeing is through ecosystem services - the benefits people derive from their interaction with ecosystems,"the complex, interconnected, dynamic nature of ecosystems and their services has so far prevented nation states from routinely measuring changes in a way that clarifies the consequences of ecosystem service change for human well-being. This lack of clarity on the direct contribution of nature to development is particularly evident at different levels and scales relevant to policy making, while at the local scale studies document linkages, these are mostly difficult to upscale to policy-relevant national and regional scales because of context specificity.","The ecosystem services literature conceptualizes this interaction by linking ecosystem structures and function to different categories of ecosystem services, namely provisioning, regulating, and cultural, which are in turn linked to various components of human wellbeing (de Groot et al. 2010; Haines-young & Potschin 2010; MA 2005). This framework provides a useful lens for viewing nature‘s contribution to human wellbeing and has been adopted, revised and improved for various purposes",,,Strong,,,,,5
