,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
1742,"Lima, M.G.B.",2017,The Sustainable Development Goals and REDD plus : assessing institutional interactions and the pursuit of synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"the goals of accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels (SDG 16), and strengthening the means of implementation and revitalization of global collaboration for sustainable development (SDG 17) are intentions that are highly synergistic with REDD+","The risk is that REDD+ could stand in parallel with the ambitions of the SDGs in some contexts, if policymakers do not make the linkages explicit, based on their national circumstances and national-level implementation frameworks. Further, the SDGs have no hierarchy over more specific institutions such as REDD+ (therefore, REDD+ will only be nested within SDGs if countries chose to rely on REDD+ as, for example, a means of implementing certain SDGs). ",,,,Strong,,,can further contribute to SDG 1 (particularly target 1.4),"The aim of the paper is to analyze potential areas of interaction between REDD+ and the SDGs, to examine how these initiatives relate to one another at their norm-setting and rule-making stages and, given their objectives, what synergies are identifiable, and how these synergies can be pursued and enhanced.  The assumption (not in the paper!) is that REDD+ corresponds to SDG 5.2",603
1743,"Lima, M.G.B.",2017,The Sustainable Development Goals and REDD plus : assessing institutional interactions and the pursuit of synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"the goals of accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels (SDG 16), and strengthening the means of implementation and revitalization of global collaboration for sustainable development (SDG 17) are intentions that are highly synergistic with REDD+","The risk is that REDD+ could stand in parallel with the ambitions of the SDGs in some contexts, if policymakers do not make the linkages explicit, based on their national circumstances and national-level implementation frameworks. Further, the SDGs have no hierarchy over more specific institutions such as REDD+ (therefore, REDD+ will only be nested within SDGs if countries chose to rely on REDD+ as, for example, a means of implementing certain SDGs). ",,,,Strong,,,can further contribute to SDG 1 (particularly target 1.4),"The aim of the paper is to analyze potential areas of interaction between REDD+ and the SDGs, to examine how these initiatives relate to one another at their norm-setting and rule-making stages and, given their objectives, what synergies are identifiable, and how these synergies can be pursued and enhanced.  The assumption (not in the paper!) is that REDD+ corresponds to SDG 5.2",603
1744,"Liu, J. et al.",2017,Challenges in operationalizing the water–energy–food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs approved by the UN in September 2015 gave further impetus to a nexus approach across water (Goal 6), energy (Goal 7) and food (Goal 2), which, respectively, contain targets of food security for all, clean water for all, and energy for all; and because inter-linkages are crucial. A wellcoordinated nexus approach could be the first step in realizing these goals.","The WEF nexus presents opportunities for policy makers, business leaders, investors, nongovernmental organizations and the public at large to address 3 mutually-dependent global security concerns (i.e. access to water, sustainable energy and food security). However, several challenges remain for the corresponding research required for sound operationalization of the nexus, largely reflected by considerable data and knowledge gaps and lack of systematic analytical tools to apply nexus thinking effectively.  Synergies across water, energy and food sectors should be achieved to benefit all, for example, through integrated governance (policy coherence) and through nexus tools (multi-functional systems).","The inter-linkages between water, energy and food are affecting the development of each of these sectors. While the links between these sectors are understood in a qualitative sense, describing these linkages in quantitative terms is largely lacking.  The boundary of each dimension: water, energy and food, has different spheres, which makes it quite challenging to characterize and manage interactions beyond the spheres of control and influence of any given nexus dimension. Yet knowledge of how the spheres of control, influence and uncertainty operate and impact each nexus dimension is critical for managing nexus interactions.  Human needs for water, energy and food synergies are geographically, culturally and economically diverse. In some communities, nations or regions, growing more food is essential for survival, a basic human need, but in other regions energy to power machines and automobiles is an important developmental concern. Thus, synergistic use of water, energy and food should be defined in a context-specific way for different regions and their different development priorities. Recognizing such diversity enables a better understanding of the WEF nexus and attainable synergies to meet the needs of all.",,,Strong,"According to the UN's estimate, the population of the Earth will surpass 10 billion by 2100 (UN-DESA 2011). The FAO projects that 60% more food and 80% more energy will be required by 2050 to meet global demand; an increase in total global water withdrawals by 50% in developing countries and 18% in developed countries by 2025 is projected.","Despite significant progress visible in the literature, many challenges remain - in scientific research on the nexus and even more in its implementation. Scientific challenges are primarily related to gaps in integrated data, information and knowledge related to the most critical inter-linkages and their dynamics. The ability to untangle the WEF nexus and make the approach operational is also limited by the lack of systematic tools that could address all the synergies and trade-offs involved in the nexus. Future research on the WEF nexus needs to strengthen the pool of information based on physical and social measurements (i.e. data and metrics) and interpret them jointly among all the three sectors. To achieve these goals, it is important to develop observation types and essential  variables, datasets, software platforms and tools (e.g. for modelling and analysis on different spatiotemporal scales). It is important for the WEF nexus approaches to identify and model feedbacks between hydrological, energy and food systems, and correspond with stakeholders and societies at large. The experience and knowledge learned and tools and approaches developed from IWRM in the water management communities can be very helpful in developing an integrated framework for tackling the WEF nexus.",,Under SDG 2 it is targets 2.1 and 2.2  Under SDG 6 it is target 6.1  Under SDG 7 it is target 7.1,1715
1745,"Liu, J. et al.",2017,Challenges in operationalizing the water–energy–food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs approved by the UN in September 2015 gave further impetus to a nexus approach across water (Goal 6), energy (Goal 7) and food (Goal 2), which, respectively, contain targets of food security for all, clean water for all, and energy for all; and because inter-linkages are crucial. A wellcoordinated nexus approach could be the first step in realizing these goals.","The WEF nexus presents opportunities for policy makers, business leaders, investors, nongovernmental organizations and the public at large to address 3 mutually-dependent global security concerns (i.e. access to water, sustainable energy and food security). However, several challenges remain for the corresponding research required for sound operationalization of the nexus, largely reflected by considerable data and knowledge gaps and lack of systematic analytical tools to apply nexus thinking effectively.  Synergies across water, energy and food sectors should be achieved to benefit all, for example, through integrated governance (policy coherence) and through nexus tools (multi-functional systems).","The inter-linkages between water, energy and food are affecting the development of each of these sectors. While the links between these sectors are understood in a qualitative sense, describing these linkages in quantitative terms is largely lacking.  The boundary of each dimension: water, energy and food, has different spheres, which makes it quite challenging to characterize and manage interactions beyond the spheres of control and influence of any given nexus dimension. Yet knowledge of how the spheres of control, influence and uncertainty operate and impact each nexus dimension is critical for managing nexus interactions.  Human needs for water, energy and food synergies are geographically, culturally and economically diverse. In some communities, nations or regions, growing more food is essential for survival, a basic human need, but in other regions energy to power machines and automobiles is an important developmental concern. Thus, synergistic use of water, energy and food should be defined in a context-specific way for different regions and their different development priorities. Recognizing such diversity enables a better understanding of the WEF nexus and attainable synergies to meet the needs of all.",,,Strong,"According to the UN's estimate, the population of the Earth will surpass 10 billion by 2100 (UN-DESA 2011). The FAO projects that 60% more food and 80% more energy will be required by 2050 to meet global demand; an increase in total global water withdrawals by 50% in developing countries and 18% in developed countries by 2025 is projected.","Despite significant progress visible in the literature, many challenges remain - in scientific research on the nexus and even more in its implementation. Scientific challenges are primarily related to gaps in integrated data, information and knowledge related to the most critical inter-linkages and their dynamics. The ability to untangle the WEF nexus and make the approach operational is also limited by the lack of systematic tools that could address all the synergies and trade-offs involved in the nexus. Future research on the WEF nexus needs to strengthen the pool of information based on physical and social measurements (i.e. data and metrics) and interpret them jointly among all the three sectors. To achieve these goals, it is important to develop observation types and essential  variables, datasets, software platforms and tools (e.g. for modelling and analysis on different spatiotemporal scales). It is important for the WEF nexus approaches to identify and model feedbacks between hydrological, energy and food systems, and correspond with stakeholders and societies at large. The experience and knowledge learned and tools and approaches developed from IWRM in the water management communities can be very helpful in developing an integrated framework for tackling the WEF nexus.",,Under SDG 2 it is targets 2.1 and 2.2  Under SDG 6 it is target 6.1  Under SDG 7 it is target 7.1,1715
1746,"Liu, J. et al.",2017,Challenges in operationalizing the water–energy–food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs approved by the UN in September 2015 gave further impetus to a nexus approach across water (Goal 6), energy (Goal 7) and food (Goal 2), which, respectively, contain targets of food security for all, clean water for all, and energy for all; and because inter-linkages are crucial. A wellcoordinated nexus approach could be the first step in realizing these goals.","The WEF nexus presents opportunities for policy makers, business leaders, investors, nongovernmental organizations and the public at large to address 3 mutually-dependent global security concerns (i.e. access to water, sustainable energy and food security). However, several challenges remain for the corresponding research required for sound operationalization of the nexus, largely reflected by considerable data and knowledge gaps and lack of systematic analytical tools to apply nexus thinking effectively.  Synergies across water, energy and food sectors should be achieved to benefit all, for example, through integrated governance (policy coherence) and through nexus tools (multi-functional systems).","The inter-linkages between water, energy and food are affecting the development of each of these sectors. While the links between these sectors are understood in a qualitative sense, describing these linkages in quantitative terms is largely lacking.  The boundary of each dimension: water, energy and food, has different spheres, which makes it quite challenging to characterize and manage interactions beyond the spheres of control and influence of any given nexus dimension. Yet knowledge of how the spheres of control, influence and uncertainty operate and impact each nexus dimension is critical for managing nexus interactions.  Human needs for water, energy and food synergies are geographically, culturally and economically diverse. In some communities, nations or regions, growing more food is essential for survival, a basic human need, but in other regions energy to power machines and automobiles is an important developmental concern. Thus, synergistic use of water, energy and food should be defined in a context-specific way for different regions and their different development priorities. Recognizing such diversity enables a better understanding of the WEF nexus and attainable synergies to meet the needs of all.",,,Strong,"According to the UN's estimate, the population of the Earth will surpass 10 billion by 2100 (UN-DESA 2011). The FAO projects that 60% more food and 80% more energy will be required by 2050 to meet global demand; an increase in total global water withdrawals by 50% in developing countries and 18% in developed countries by 2025 is projected.","Despite significant progress visible in the literature, many challenges remain - in scientific research on the nexus and even more in its implementation. Scientific challenges are primarily related to gaps in integrated data, information and knowledge related to the most critical inter-linkages and their dynamics. The ability to untangle the WEF nexus and make the approach operational is also limited by the lack of systematic tools that could address all the synergies and trade-offs involved in the nexus. Future research on the WEF nexus needs to strengthen the pool of information based on physical and social measurements (i.e. data and metrics) and interpret them jointly among all the three sectors. To achieve these goals, it is important to develop observation types and essential  variables, datasets, software platforms and tools (e.g. for modelling and analysis on different spatiotemporal scales). It is important for the WEF nexus approaches to identify and model feedbacks between hydrological, energy and food systems, and correspond with stakeholders and societies at large. The experience and knowledge learned and tools and approaches developed from IWRM in the water management communities can be very helpful in developing an integrated framework for tackling the WEF nexus.",,Under SDG 2 it is targets 2.1 and 2.2  Under SDG 6 it is target 6.1  Under SDG 7 it is target 7.1,1715
1747,"Liu, J. et al.",2017,Challenges in operationalizing the water–energy–food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs approved by the UN in September 2015 gave further impetus to a nexus approach across water (Goal 6), energy (Goal 7) and food (Goal 2), which, respectively, contain targets of food security for all, clean water for all, and energy for all; and because inter-linkages are crucial. A wellcoordinated nexus approach could be the first step in realizing these goals.","The WEF nexus presents opportunities for policy makers, business leaders, investors, nongovernmental organizations and the public at large to address 3 mutually-dependent global security concerns (i.e. access to water, sustainable energy and food security). However, several challenges remain for the corresponding research required for sound operationalization of the nexus, largely reflected by considerable data and knowledge gaps and lack of systematic analytical tools to apply nexus thinking effectively.  Synergies across water, energy and food sectors should be achieved to benefit all, for example, through integrated governance (policy coherence) and through nexus tools (multi-functional systems).","The inter-linkages between water, energy and food are affecting the development of each of these sectors. While the links between these sectors are understood in a qualitative sense, describing these linkages in quantitative terms is largely lacking.  The boundary of each dimension: water, energy and food, has different spheres, which makes it quite challenging to characterize and manage interactions beyond the spheres of control and influence of any given nexus dimension. Yet knowledge of how the spheres of control, influence and uncertainty operate and impact each nexus dimension is critical for managing nexus interactions.  Human needs for water, energy and food synergies are geographically, culturally and economically diverse. In some communities, nations or regions, growing more food is essential for survival, a basic human need, but in other regions energy to power machines and automobiles is an important developmental concern. Thus, synergistic use of water, energy and food should be defined in a context-specific way for different regions and their different development priorities. Recognizing such diversity enables a better understanding of the WEF nexus and attainable synergies to meet the needs of all.",,,Strong,"According to the UN's estimate, the population of the Earth will surpass 10 billion by 2100 (UN-DESA 2011). The FAO projects that 60% more food and 80% more energy will be required by 2050 to meet global demand; an increase in total global water withdrawals by 50% in developing countries and 18% in developed countries by 2025 is projected.","Despite significant progress visible in the literature, many challenges remain - in scientific research on the nexus and even more in its implementation. Scientific challenges are primarily related to gaps in integrated data, information and knowledge related to the most critical inter-linkages and their dynamics. The ability to untangle the WEF nexus and make the approach operational is also limited by the lack of systematic tools that could address all the synergies and trade-offs involved in the nexus. Future research on the WEF nexus needs to strengthen the pool of information based on physical and social measurements (i.e. data and metrics) and interpret them jointly among all the three sectors. To achieve these goals, it is important to develop observation types and essential  variables, datasets, software platforms and tools (e.g. for modelling and analysis on different spatiotemporal scales). It is important for the WEF nexus approaches to identify and model feedbacks between hydrological, energy and food systems, and correspond with stakeholders and societies at large. The experience and knowledge learned and tools and approaches developed from IWRM in the water management communities can be very helpful in developing an integrated framework for tackling the WEF nexus.",,Under SDG 2 it is targets 2.1 and 2.2  Under SDG 6 it is target 6.1  Under SDG 7 it is target 7.1,1715
1748,"Liu, J. et al.",2017,Challenges in operationalizing the water–energy–food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs approved by the UN in September 2015 gave further impetus to a nexus approach across water (Goal 6), energy (Goal 7) and food (Goal 2), which, respectively, contain targets of food security for all, clean water for all, and energy for all; and because inter-linkages are crucial. A wellcoordinated nexus approach could be the first step in realizing these goals.","The WEF nexus presents opportunities for policy makers, business leaders, investors, nongovernmental organizations and the public at large to address 3 mutually-dependent global security concerns (i.e. access to water, sustainable energy and food security). However, several challenges remain for the corresponding research required for sound operationalization of the nexus, largely reflected by considerable data and knowledge gaps and lack of systematic analytical tools to apply nexus thinking effectively.  Synergies across water, energy and food sectors should be achieved to benefit all, for example, through integrated governance (policy coherence) and through nexus tools (multi-functional systems).","The inter-linkages between water, energy and food are affecting the development of each of these sectors. While the links between these sectors are understood in a qualitative sense, describing these linkages in quantitative terms is largely lacking.  The boundary of each dimension: water, energy and food, has different spheres, which makes it quite challenging to characterize and manage interactions beyond the spheres of control and influence of any given nexus dimension. Yet knowledge of how the spheres of control, influence and uncertainty operate and impact each nexus dimension is critical for managing nexus interactions.  Human needs for water, energy and food synergies are geographically, culturally and economically diverse. In some communities, nations or regions, growing more food is essential for survival, a basic human need, but in other regions energy to power machines and automobiles is an important developmental concern. Thus, synergistic use of water, energy and food should be defined in a context-specific way for different regions and their different development priorities. Recognizing such diversity enables a better understanding of the WEF nexus and attainable synergies to meet the needs of all.",,,Strong,"According to the UN's estimate, the population of the Earth will surpass 10 billion by 2100 (UN-DESA 2011). The FAO projects that 60% more food and 80% more energy will be required by 2050 to meet global demand; an increase in total global water withdrawals by 50% in developing countries and 18% in developed countries by 2025 is projected.","Despite significant progress visible in the literature, many challenges remain - in scientific research on the nexus and even more in its implementation. Scientific challenges are primarily related to gaps in integrated data, information and knowledge related to the most critical inter-linkages and their dynamics. The ability to untangle the WEF nexus and make the approach operational is also limited by the lack of systematic tools that could address all the synergies and trade-offs involved in the nexus. Future research on the WEF nexus needs to strengthen the pool of information based on physical and social measurements (i.e. data and metrics) and interpret them jointly among all the three sectors. To achieve these goals, it is important to develop observation types and essential  variables, datasets, software platforms and tools (e.g. for modelling and analysis on different spatiotemporal scales). It is important for the WEF nexus approaches to identify and model feedbacks between hydrological, energy and food systems, and correspond with stakeholders and societies at large. The experience and knowledge learned and tools and approaches developed from IWRM in the water management communities can be very helpful in developing an integrated framework for tackling the WEF nexus.",,Under SDG 2 it is targets 2.1 and 2.2  Under SDG 6 it is target 6.1  Under SDG 7 it is target 7.1,1715
1749,"Liu, J. et al.",2017,Challenges in operationalizing the water–energy–food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs approved by the UN in September 2015 gave further impetus to a nexus approach across water (Goal 6), energy (Goal 7) and food (Goal 2), which, respectively, contain targets of food security for all, clean water for all, and energy for all; and because inter-linkages are crucial. A wellcoordinated nexus approach could be the first step in realizing these goals.","The WEF nexus presents opportunities for policy makers, business leaders, investors, nongovernmental organizations and the public at large to address 3 mutually-dependent global security concerns (i.e. access to water, sustainable energy and food security). However, several challenges remain for the corresponding research required for sound operationalization of the nexus, largely reflected by considerable data and knowledge gaps and lack of systematic analytical tools to apply nexus thinking effectively.  Synergies across water, energy and food sectors should be achieved to benefit all, for example, through integrated governance (policy coherence) and through nexus tools (multi-functional systems).","The inter-linkages between water, energy and food are affecting the development of each of these sectors. While the links between these sectors are understood in a qualitative sense, describing these linkages in quantitative terms is largely lacking.  The boundary of each dimension: water, energy and food, has different spheres, which makes it quite challenging to characterize and manage interactions beyond the spheres of control and influence of any given nexus dimension. Yet knowledge of how the spheres of control, influence and uncertainty operate and impact each nexus dimension is critical for managing nexus interactions.  Human needs for water, energy and food synergies are geographically, culturally and economically diverse. In some communities, nations or regions, growing more food is essential for survival, a basic human need, but in other regions energy to power machines and automobiles is an important developmental concern. Thus, synergistic use of water, energy and food should be defined in a context-specific way for different regions and their different development priorities. Recognizing such diversity enables a better understanding of the WEF nexus and attainable synergies to meet the needs of all.",,,Strong,"According to the UN's estimate, the population of the Earth will surpass 10 billion by 2100 (UN-DESA 2011). The FAO projects that 60% more food and 80% more energy will be required by 2050 to meet global demand; an increase in total global water withdrawals by 50% in developing countries and 18% in developed countries by 2025 is projected.","Despite significant progress visible in the literature, many challenges remain - in scientific research on the nexus and even more in its implementation. Scientific challenges are primarily related to gaps in integrated data, information and knowledge related to the most critical inter-linkages and their dynamics. The ability to untangle the WEF nexus and make the approach operational is also limited by the lack of systematic tools that could address all the synergies and trade-offs involved in the nexus. Future research on the WEF nexus needs to strengthen the pool of information based on physical and social measurements (i.e. data and metrics) and interpret them jointly among all the three sectors. To achieve these goals, it is important to develop observation types and essential  variables, datasets, software platforms and tools (e.g. for modelling and analysis on different spatiotemporal scales). It is important for the WEF nexus approaches to identify and model feedbacks between hydrological, energy and food systems, and correspond with stakeholders and societies at large. The experience and knowledge learned and tools and approaches developed from IWRM in the water management communities can be very helpful in developing an integrated framework for tackling the WEF nexus.",,Under SDG 2 it is targets 2.1 and 2.2  Under SDG 6 it is target 6.1  Under SDG 7 it is target 7.1,1715
1750,"Lubchenco, J., et al.",2016,The right incentives enable ocean sustainability successes and provide hope for the future,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,14.2,14.5,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Various alternative approaches to align conservation and economic incentives have been proposed and implemented (e.g. self-organization and self-regulation in small societies; align long- and short-term economic incentives for individual fishers through rights-based fishery (RBF) or secure-access systems; modification of social norms including reputation-based schemes).  Focus here is on economic incentives in fisheries and coastal/ocean planning, and on behavioral incentives through changing social norms for international policy, national actions, and business practices, to help strengthen feedbacks that lead to desirable and sustainable systems.","Importance of using a complex adaptive system (CAS) framework to think about global problems tied to the ocean and the need for flexible and adaptive policies. Despite attempts to fully understand social and ecological systems, there will always be uncertainty that requires approaches capable of anticipating, detecting, and reacting to change. Therefore, there is a need for building policies that change incentives, which requires iterative actions on the part of resource users and managers. Adaptive governance and comanagement, along with other existing frameworks, seek to solve this challenge of managing resources by allowing flexibility in policies, building decision-making at multiple levels, and reinforcing trust and dialogue. These frameworks also align with the idea of polycentricity, wherein some level of autonomy between resource users and managers can lead to better, more efficient management of common-pool resources.  Realizing potential benefits is not easy and requires: sustained political leadership to reform policies; the strong engagement of fishers, fishing communities, and concerned citizens; the availability of financing for transition costs; scientific capacity to determine catch limits; and adequate catch accounting, compliance, and enforcement.",well-designed secure-access fisheries align individual economic and conservation incentives by providing fishers predictable access to a portion of the allocated harvest (either a share of the total allowable catch or an area in which to fish). This approach provides motivation for fishers to act as stewards of the resource and allows fished populations to increase. Switch to right based fishery.,,,Strong,"The Gulf of Mexico commercial red snapper fishery provides another about-face fishery recovery in the aftermath of MSA (Management Act Amendments) reforms and adoption of catch shares. On the brink of collapse after decades of overfishing, the commercial fishery was converted to RBF management in 2007. Since then, the spawning potential has tripled, discards have dropped more than 50%, catch limits have more than doubled, revenue is up 70%, the fishery is safer, and its rating by the independent Monterey Bay Aquarium’s Seafood Watch certification program has improved from “avoid” to “good alternative”  Around 65% by volume of the fish caught in United States federal waters are under a RBF fishery management system. At the global scale, today there are over 200 RBFs covering over 500 species in 40 countries.  Following implementation of territoria-use rights in fisheries (another form of secure-access fishery management) in Belize, a 60% deline in violations of fishing regulations resulted.  reforming fisheries management using RBF approaches could result in annual increases of over 16 million metric tons in catch, US $53 billion in profits, and 619 million metric tons in fish biomass in the ocean, compared to business as usual. Appropriate reforms could also lead to a median recovery time of under 10 y for most fisheries. By exploring the transition of fisheries to secure-access management, it was show that the associated economic incentives can benefit individual fishers and industry, as well as align with the societal interest of restoring and sustainably managing fish stocks.",,,"Review reveals that altering incentives - either economic or social norms, or both - can achieve positive outcomes. For example, introduction of well-designed rights-based or secure-access fisheries and ecosystem service accounting shifts economic incentives to align conservation and economic benefits. Modifying social norms can create conditions that incentivize a company, country, or individual to fish sustainably, curb illegal fishing, or create large marine reserves as steps to enhance reputation or self-image. In each example, the feedbacks between individual actors and emergent system properties were altered, triggering a transition from a vicious to a virtuous cycle. Authors suggest that evaluating conservation tools by their ability to align incentives of actors with broader goals of sustainability is an underused approach that can provide a pathway toward scaling sustainability successes. In short, getting incentives right matters.",14508-14509
1751,"Lubchenco, J., et al.",2016,The right incentives enable ocean sustainability successes and provide hope for the future,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,14,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Over 3 billion people depend upon the oceans to provide their primary source of protein,,,,,,,,,,14507
1752,"Lubchenco, J., et al.",2016,The right incentives enable ocean sustainability successes and provide hope for the future,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,14,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,marine fisheries directly or indirectly employ over 200 million people,,,,,,,,,,14507
1753,"Lucey, A.",2015,"Implementing the Peace, Security and Development Nexus in Africa",Academic-peer reviewed,Africa,Regional,,,,,16,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Peace, security and development are inextricably linked. Peaceful, democratic and well-governed societies are believed to promote levels of growth, employment and prosperity.","the African continent has adopted a Common African Position (CAP) whereby it acknowledges the importance of peace and security on the continent, and the inter-linkages between peace, security and development.  This article specifically outlines the AU Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development (PCRD) framework, which seeks to ‘consolidate peace and prevent relapse to violence, promote sustainable development and pave the way for growth and regeneration in countries and regions emerging from conflict’5 and looks at the challenges in implementing this framework. It examines emerging opportunities for further activities that promote peace, security and development, such as the African Solidarity Initiative (ASI), which has attempted to revive PCRD on the continent through technical assistance from African states to African states. More broadly it looks at the role of South–South Cooperation (SSC) in enhancing peace and security initiatives. Particularly at a time of global austerity, SSC shows mutual complementarities to peacebuilding, by redefining peacebuilding as ‘an expression of solidarity and shared experiences’.6 SSC provides a means to capacitate and bolster resources as well as to provide an opportunity to develop best practices and harmonise policies,7 which could supplement the prospects of a more sustainable peace on the African continent, on the condition that these frameworks are aligned with the existing ones. the framework has linkages to the peace and security-related SDG (for example the AU PCRD pillar on justice and reconciliation can be used as a framework to achieve the reconciliation spoken of in the current synthesis report on the SDGs) and is also in line with the CAP. Discussions on the measurement of the SDGs should therefore consider means of achieving these goals through implementing the AU PCRD framework.",,,,Strong,,"The African continent has made its priorities known by issuing a statement, otherwise known as the CAP26, on the post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals. The statement is particularly relevant from the point of view of legitimacy. Some have criticised peacebuilding for imposing external interventions on countries. Following this line of thought, a state can only be considered legitimate if it is built from normative commitments of the nationally driven citizens rather than the interveners. Specifically, the CAP acknowledges ‘the importance of peace and security in Africa and in the world, and the inextricable links between development and peace, security and stability’ and reaffirms that ‘peace and security is essential for the achievement of the continent’s development aspirations particularly for countries affected by conflict and those emerging from conflict’ (more on p. 504)  AU does make efforts to integrate peace, security and development through its PCRD framework. It also offers the framework within which to carry out the CAP, in particular the aspects that address the root causes of violence. The AU PCRD framework comes from the AU Peace and Security Council and was developed as a means of guiding country-specific policies and strategies with the objectives of consolidating peace and preventing a relapse into violence; helping to address the root causes of conflict; encouraging fast-track planning and implementation of reconstruction activities; and enhancing complementarities and coordination between and among diverse actors engaged in PCRD processes.31 It was adopted in 2006. (more on p. 504)",,under SDG 16 particularly targets 16.3 and 16.7,500
1754,"Lucey, A.",2015,"Implementing the Peace, Security and Development Nexus in Africa",Academic-peer reviewed,Africa,Regional,,,,,17,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Many new actors have become involved in south–south exchanges of assistance; in Africa, this has included Nigeria, South Africa, Tunisia, Rwanda, Uganda and Botswana. South–south cooperation aims to reduce international inequalities and look at how countries that have gone through similar experiences can contribute to a larger common goal.48 Underlying SSC are five principles, known as the ‘Nairobi Principles’, which were developed in 2009 and endorsed by the UN General Assembly in 2010. These are ‘respect for national sovereignty, national ownership and independence, equality, nonconditionality, non-interference in domestic affairs and mutual benefit’.49 In many areas, these principles complement those of peacebuilding, particularly on ownership and mutual benefit (see Table 1).",,,,,Strong,,,,,508
1755,"Lucey, A.",2015,"Implementing the Peace, Security and Development Nexus in Africa",Academic-peer reviewed,Africa,Regional,,,,,17,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"One of the ways in which the AU PCRD framework can be implemented is through the ASI. The ASI was launched in July 201242 with the aim of mobilising in-kind and financial resources from Africa to carry out PCRD activities. Its objectives are as follows: ● Instituting a platform aimed at increasing African contributions for PCRD activities in Africa; ● Mobilising both financial and, most importantly, in-kind contributions from African countries, parastatals, private sector and other potential contributors; ● Instituting and expanding processes for intra-African sharing of technical expertise and capacity training; ● Increasing the level of intra-African mutual assistance and self-reliance; ● Creating conditions for further support from international partners.43",,,,,Strong,see p. 507,,,,507
1756,"Luckham, R.",2017,"Whose violence, whose security? Can violence reduction and security work for poor, excluded and vulnerable people?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,16.3,16.1,16,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Political stability, durable institutions, the rule of law, and effective and accountable security apparatuses are not just desirable attributes of states but are also in many respects conditions of the security of people.",,,,,Strong,,,,"There is the shared worldview that liberal peace and the curbing of violence are essential preconditions for sustainable development. The paper investigates behind this consensus to spell out the multiple ways violence presents itself and affects security and peace-building, and goes on to argue that violence is intimately connected to how states construct security and pursue development. Building durable and inclusive peace requires a different view of security, which is rooted in the experience and vernacular understandings of the people and groups who are ‘secured’.  The thrust of the analysis above is that the forms of violence are multiple and their laws of motion complex. For this reason, turning SDG 16s goal of reducing violence into practical peacebuilding poses immense problems. The starting point should be the vernacular understandings of those most affected by violent conflict. They are by no means passive cyphers in the dramas of violence war, peace and security. Only by listening to them can the grip of dominant state and security-centred paradigms over analysis and policy be broken.",111
1757,"Luckham, R.",2017,"Whose violence, whose security? Can violence reduction and security work for poor, excluded and vulnerable people?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,16.6,16.1,16,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Political stability, durable institutions, the rule of law, and effective and accountable security apparatuses are not just desirable attributes of states but are also in many respects conditions of the security of people.",,,,,Strong,,,,"There is the shared worldview that liberal peace and the curbing of violence are essential preconditions for sustainable development. The paper investigates behind this consensus to spell out the multiple ways violence presents itself and affects security and peace-building, and goes on to argue that violence is intimately connected to how states construct security and pursue development. Building durable and inclusive peace requires a different view of security, which is rooted in the experience and vernacular understandings of the people and groups who are ‘secured’.  The thrust of the analysis above is that the forms of violence are multiple and their laws of motion complex. For this reason, turning SDG 16s goal of reducing violence into practical peacebuilding poses immense problems. The starting point should be the vernacular understandings of those most affected by violent conflict. They are by no means passive cyphers in the dramas of violence war, peace and security. Only by listening to them can the grip of dominant state and security-centred paradigms over analysis and policy be broken.",111
1758,"Luckham, R.",2017,"Whose violence, whose security? Can violence reduction and security work for poor, excluded and vulnerable people?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Mainstream analyses of the development–conflict nexus for the most part adhere to neoliberal paradigms of market oriented development. People and groups who engage in violence do so as rational actors responding to material opportunities and incentives. Development and material progress themselves are seen as the most powerful form of conflict prevention. State fragility is regarded as both a cause and an outcome of blocked development; and it is also viewed in its own right as a major source of political violence.,"Conversely, security and public order are considered to be key prerequisites for development. Following from this, recent policy analysis has focused on stabilisation programmes aimed at re-imposing security and on political settlements to establish institutions and create durable forms of political order.",,,,Strong,,,,"There is the shared worldview that liberal peace and the curbing of violence are essential preconditions for sustainable development. The paper investigates behind this consensus to spell out the multiple ways violence presents itself and affects security and peace-building, and goes on to argue that violence is intimately connected to how states construct security and pursue development. Building durable and inclusive peace requires a different view of security, which is rooted in the experience and vernacular understandings of the people and groups who are ‘secured’.  The thrust of the analysis above is that the forms of violence are multiple and their laws of motion complex. For this reason, turning SDG 16s goal of reducing violence into practical peacebuilding poses immense problems. The starting point should be the vernacular understandings of those most affected by violent conflict. They are by no means passive cyphers in the dramas of violence war, peace and security. Only by listening to them can the grip of dominant state and security-centred paradigms over analysis and policy be broken.",107
1759,"Lundsgaarde, E.",2017,Business Motives in Global Multi-Stakeholder Initiatives: Exploring Corporate Participation in Sustainable Energy for All,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.7,17.3,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The SEforALL initiative is broadly framed as an avenue for mobilizing investment and expertise from the private sector in a collaborative setting where public sector actors perform a facilitation role by improving policy contexts to stimulate investment.,"aim of the Accelerator Platform is to facilitate the expansion of energy efficient practices and technologies, especially by encouraging governmental actors to link up with private sector actors to identify opportunities to mobilize and apply knowledge of available solutions. The platform promotes the analysis of policy constraints to adopting energy efficiency improvements and seeks to enable the exchange of best practices through networking activities. It provides an example of a multi-stakeholder initiative operating in an evolving regulatory space, as policy changes at multiple levels of government represent a key element of reshaping the marketplace for the adoption of energy efficient practices",,,,Strong,"across all of the initiatives falling under the umbrella of the Energy Efficiency Accelerator Platform, the majority of participants are governmental actors. Subnational and national governments and international organizations together represent 74 per cent of the participating entities, while private firms represent the largest category of non-governmental participants ahead of business associations and non-profit organizations",,also linked to SDG 13,"The Energy Efficiency Accelerator Platform forms part of the SEforALL initiative launched by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon in 2011 to promote three interrelated objectives: (1) ensuring universal access to modern energy services; (2) doubling the rate of improvement in energy efficiency; and (3) doubling the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. The initiative reflects a desire to reconcile economic development objectives with efforts to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions and point to social, economic, and environmental gains in promoting this agenda.",467
1760,"Lutz, W., and S. KC",2011,Global Human Capital: Integrating Education and Population,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,4,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Education is also one of the most important determinants of adult health and mortality. Large numbers of studies have established significant education gradients in mortality in different parts of the world despite marked contextual differences.,"At the aggregate level, systems of governance and democracy have been shown to be closely related to a society’s level of education. It has been shown that the age structure of human capital and, in particular, the time when large cohorts of better educated men and women enter the young adult ages play a key role in the transitions of societies into modern democracies. ","A recent global-level study on the basis of the World Health Survey found that almost universally, better educated men and women at a given age have amuch lower level of self-reported disability [limitations in activities of daily living (ADL)] than do the less educated.   However, more research is needed on the interlinkages between education and health.",,,Strong,,,Large cohorts of young adults who are also better educated but cannot match their higher aspirations with the realities under an oppressive regime present a major force toward change.,,591
1761,"Lutz, W., and S. KC",2011,Global Human Capital: Integrating Education and Population,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,4,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Empirical studies show that better educated women consistently want fewer children, have greater autonomy in reproductive decision-making, more knowledge about and access to contraception, and are more motivated to use contraception because of the higher opportunity costs of unplanned childbearing. ","Because female education is associated with lower fertility at the individual level, populations with higher proportions of better educated women have lower overall birth rates. Because this factor by far outweighs the higher child survival rates, it will lead to a reduction in the population growth rates. For this reason, universal secondary female education—in addition to its many other positive implications—has been suggested as an effective way to lower the world’s population growth.  From a policy perspective it is most effective to increase female education and improve access to family planning programs at the same time.  At the aggregate level, systems of governance and democracy have been shown to be closely related to a society’s level of education. It has been shown that the age structure of human capital and, in particular, the time when large cohorts of better educated men and women enter the young adult ages play a key role in the transitions of societies into modern democracies. ","effect of better education on population growth will take a long time, primarily because of two factors: If more girls are entering primary education tomorrow, the main effect on fertility will only be some 15 or more years later, when these young women are in their prime child-bearing ages; once fertility rates fall, this will not translate right away into falling absolute numbers of births because of the great momentum of more young women moving into reproductive ages as a consequence  alternative education trajectories alone will already, over the next 40 years, make a difference in global population size that is bigger than the entire African population today, or three times the current U.S. population. This effect is strongest for countries with currently high fertility rates and high education differentials. of past high fertility.  Although female education is an important force toward lowering fertility, rapid growth in the number of children in a society in which total resources do not grow at the same pace is an obstacle in the expansion of education.",,,Strong,"In Kenya, for example, the population would increase from 31 million in 2000 to 84 to 85 million in 2050 under the optimistic scenarios but increase to an incredible 114 million if no new schools are built. The difference between these extreme scenarios is 30 million—about the size of Kenya’s total population in 2000.","These results are likely to be an underestimate of the effect of education on population growth because it only considers the individual level effects and not the community-level effects of spillover, normative change, and better availability of reproductive health services in communities with better educated women. Particularly in countries that have experienced the most rapid voluntary fertility declines—such as Iran, Mauritius, and South Korea—these community-level effects were highly relevant.",Large cohorts of young adults who are also better educated but cannot match their higher aspirations with the realities under an oppressive regime present a major force toward change.,"Under SDG 4 it is particularly the targets 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.5, and 4.6  Under SDG 3 it is target 3.7",590
1762,"Lutz, W., and S. KC",2011,Global Human Capital: Integrating Education and Population,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,4,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In virtually all societies, better educated men and women have lower mortality rates, and their children have better chances of survival. Almost universally, women with higher levels of education have fewer children, presumably because they want fewer and find better access to birth control. This effect of education on fertility is particularly strong in countries that still have relatively high overall fertility levels and hence are in the early phases of their demographic transitions.","At the aggregate level, systems of governance and democracy have been shown to be closely related to a society’s level of education. It has been shown that the age structure of human capital and, in particular, the time when large cohorts of better educated men and women enter the young adult ages play a key role in the transitions of societies into modern democracies. ",,,,Strong,,,Large cohorts of young adults who are also better educated but cannot match their higher aspirations with the realities under an oppressive regime present a major force toward change.,,588
1763,"Lutz, W., and S. KC",2011,Global Human Capital: Integrating Education and Population,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,4,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Reviews of surveys and census data from developing countries and econometric analyses of cross-country macro-data have confirmed women’s education as the most important determinant of child mortality, in which estimates show that each additional year of schooling is associated with a 5 to 7% reduction in child death.","A systematic assessment for a large number of developing countries finds that almost universally, a mother’s education is more important for child survival than is household income and wealth. This finding has major implications for setting policy priorities because whether the emphasis is put primarily on girls’ education or on household income generation makes a big difference.  At the aggregate level, systems of governance and democracy have been shown to be closely related to a society’s level of education. It has been shown that the age structure of human capital and, in particular, the time when large cohorts of better educated men and women enter the young adult ages play a key role in the transitions of societies into modern democracies. ",,,,Strong,"The <5-years mortality rate is high in many African countries, especially among the children of uneducated mothers. The worst situation is in Mali and Niger. In every country, the mortality rates are lower for better educated mothers. In some countries, primary education is already associated with much lower child mortality (e.g. Nigeria, Bolivia); in others, the decisive difference only comes with secondary education (e.g. Liberia, Uganda).",,Large cohorts of young adults who are also better educated but cannot match their higher aspirations with the realities under an oppressive regime present a major force toward change.,"Under SDG 4 it is particularly the targets 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.5, and 4.6  Under SDG 3 it is target 3.2",589
1764,"Lutz, W., and S. KC",2011,Global Human Capital: Integrating Education and Population,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,4,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Pattern where economic growth is fastest when the better educated young cohorts enter young adulthood is most clearly visible for the Asian tiger states, where the inter-cohort improvements in education were dramatic. At global level, the age-specific human capital indicators statistically and unambiguously confirm the key role of human capital in economic growth.","At the aggregate level, systems of governance and democracy have been shown to be closely related to a society’s level of education. It has been shown that the age structure of human capital and, in particular, the time when large cohorts of better educated men and women enter the young adult ages play a key role in the transitions of societies into modern democracies. ",,,,Strong,,,Large cohorts of young adults who are also better educated but cannot match their higher aspirations with the realities under an oppressive regime present a major force toward change.,,591
1765,"Lutz, W., et al.",2008,The Demography of Educational Attainment and Economic Growth,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,Interaction impact can be felt within 15 years,,,4,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Better education does not only lead to higher individual income but also is a necessary precondition for long-term economic growth. The fruits of investments in education need a long time to ripen, to translate the education of children into better human capital of the adult labor force. Education is a long-term investment associated with near-term costs, but, in the long run, it is one of the best investments societies can make in their futures.  ","findings have political consequences for the next round of defining international education goals: The current MDG’s focus on universal primary education is important but insufficient; needs to be complemented with the goal of giving broad segments of the population at least a completed junior secondary education. Only this is likely to give initially poor countries the human capital boost that is necessary to bring large segments of the population out of poverty. For more industrialized countries, tertiary education of younger adults also is an important determinant of economic growth.",,,,Strong,"Modelling results show consistently positive, statistically significant education effects on economic growth for some age and education groups  Using our new educational attainment data by age groups, we estimated simple growth regressions based on 5-year periods for a panel of 101 countries for which all the necessary economic and education data exist over the period 1970–2000. Results show that the combination of widespread primary and widespread secondary education leads to a boost in economic growth.",,,"In the model used, human capital by broad age groups enters production both as differentiated labor force inputs and through the absorption rate of new technologies, which, in turn, depends on the interaction between human capital and distance to the technological frontier. The effect of education on labor force participation is assumed to be specific to each age and education group and constant over time.  Results were compared to age-aggregated version of the IIASAVID data and the widely used Barro-Lee data set, which has no age detail. The comparison with the full age-structured model gives evidence of differences across age groups in the effects of education on GDP growth. These results point to the importance of the demographic structure of human capital when assessing the effect of education on economic growth. The IIASA-VID data set is, as of today, the only comprehensive data set offering such demographic detail in education figures.",1048
1766,"Lutz, W., et al.",2014,Universal education is key to enhanced climate adaptation,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,4.1,1.2,4,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Recent research suggests that general empowerment of populations through universal primary and secondary education is not only essential to poverty alleviation and economic growth but also to reducing vulnerability to natural disasters. It is not unreasonable to assume that factors that helped reduce vulnerability to floods, tropical storms, and droughts over the past decades will help reduce future vulnerability to climate change. Analysis of national-level time series clearly indicates that female education is indeed strongly associated with a reduction in disaster fatalities.",,"Empirical studies for different parts of the world and at different levels of analysis (from individual-, household-, and community-level to global-level data) demonstrate that education contributes to vulnerability reduction and adaptive capacity enhancement in the predisaster phase and during disaster events and the disaster aftermath.  Before a disaster, disaster mitigation efforts like living in low-risk areas or undertaking disaster preparedness measures, such as stockpiling emergency supplies, are found to be greater among more highly educated individuals and households. Similarly, loss of life, injury, morbidity, and physical damage from natural disasters were reported to be lower in communities and countries with a higher proportion of populations with at least a junior secondary education. The better educated were also found to cope better with both income loss and the psychological impacts of natural disasters. Therefore, there is firm ground to assume functional causality of the effects of education on reducing vulnerability.  One important mechanism through which education influences human well-being is neurocognitive development. Learning basic literacy, numeracy, and abstraction skills enhances cognitive capacities through raising the efficiency of individuals’ cognitive processes and logical reasoning. Accordingly, because preventive action is initiated by stressors, such as perception of risk, followed by assessments of one’s ability to respond to the threat, the more educated tend to have greater risk awareness because of better understanding of the consequences of their actions. In addition to these individual-level effects, there are also spillover effects of education at the community level.",,,Strong,,,,,1061
1767,"Lutz, W., et al.",2014,Universal education is key to enhanced climate adaptation,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,4.1,1.5,4,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Recent research suggests that general empowerment of populations through universal primary and secondary education is not only essential to poverty alleviation and economic growth but also to reducing vulnerability to natural disasters. It is not unreasonable to assume that factors that helped reduce vulnerability to floods, tropical storms, and droughts over the past decades will help reduce future vulnerability to climate change. Analysis of national-level time series clearly indicates that female education is indeed strongly associated with a reduction in disaster fatalities.",,"Empirical studies for different parts of the world and at different levels of analysis (from individual-, household-, and community-level to global-level data) demonstrate that education contributes to vulnerability reduction and adaptive capacity enhancement in the predisaster phase and during disaster events and the disaster aftermath.  Before a disaster, disaster mitigation efforts like living in low-risk areas or undertaking disaster preparedness measures, such as stockpiling emergency supplies, are found to be greater among more highly educated individuals and households. Similarly, loss of life, injury, morbidity, and physical damage from natural disasters were reported to be lower in communities and countries with a higher proportion of populations with at least a junior secondary education. The better educated were also found to cope better with both income loss and the psychological impacts of natural disasters. Therefore, there is firm ground to assume functional causality of the effects of education on reducing vulnerability.  One important mechanism through which education influences human well-being is neurocognitive development. Learning basic literacy, numeracy, and abstraction skills enhances cognitive capacities through raising the efficiency of individuals’ cognitive processes and logical reasoning. Accordingly, because preventive action is initiated by stressors, such as perception of risk, followed by assessments of one’s ability to respond to the threat, the more educated tend to have greater risk awareness because of better understanding of the consequences of their actions. In addition to these individual-level effects, there are also spillover effects of education at the community level.",,,Strong,,,,,1061
1768,"Lutz, W., et al.",2014,Universal education is key to enhanced climate adaptation,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,4.1,8.1,4,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Recent research suggests that general empowerment of populations through universal primary and secondary education is not only essential to poverty alleviation and economic growth but also to reducing vulnerability to natural disasters. It is not unreasonable to assume that factors that helped reduce vulnerability to floods, tropical storms, and droughts over the past decades will help reduce future vulnerability to climate change. Analysis of national-level time series clearly indicates that female education is indeed strongly associated with a reduction in disaster fatalities.",,"Empirical studies for different parts of the world and at different levels of analysis (from individual-, household-, and community-level to global-level data) demonstrate that education contributes to vulnerability reduction and adaptive capacity enhancement in the predisaster phase and during disaster events and the disaster aftermath.  Before a disaster, disaster mitigation efforts like living in low-risk areas or undertaking disaster preparedness measures, such as stockpiling emergency supplies, are found to be greater among more highly educated individuals and households. Similarly, loss of life, injury, morbidity, and physical damage from natural disasters were reported to be lower in communities and countries with a higher proportion of populations with at least a junior secondary education. The better educated were also found to cope better with both income loss and the psychological impacts of natural disasters. Therefore, there is firm ground to assume functional causality of the effects of education on reducing vulnerability.  One important mechanism through which education influences human well-being is neurocognitive development. Learning basic literacy, numeracy, and abstraction skills enhances cognitive capacities through raising the efficiency of individuals’ cognitive processes and logical reasoning. Accordingly, because preventive action is initiated by stressors, such as perception of risk, followed by assessments of one’s ability to respond to the threat, the more educated tend to have greater risk awareness because of better understanding of the consequences of their actions. In addition to these individual-level effects, there are also spillover effects of education at the community level.",,,Strong,,,,,1061
1769,"Lutz, W., et al.",2014,Universal education is key to enhanced climate adaptation,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,4.1,13.1,4,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Recent research suggests that general empowerment of populations through universal primary and secondary education is not only essential to poverty alleviation and economic growth but also to reducing vulnerability to natural disasters. It is not unreasonable to assume that factors that helped reduce vulnerability to floods, tropical storms, and droughts over the past decades will help reduce future vulnerability to climate change. Analysis of national-level time series clearly indicates that female education is indeed strongly associated with a reduction in disaster fatalities.",,"Empirical studies for different parts of the world and at different levels of analysis (from individual-, household-, and community-level to global-level data) demonstrate that education contributes to vulnerability reduction and adaptive capacity enhancement in the predisaster phase and during disaster events and the disaster aftermath.  Before a disaster, disaster mitigation efforts like living in low-risk areas or undertaking disaster preparedness measures, such as stockpiling emergency supplies, are found to be greater among more highly educated individuals and households. Similarly, loss of life, injury, morbidity, and physical damage from natural disasters were reported to be lower in communities and countries with a higher proportion of populations with at least a junior secondary education. The better educated were also found to cope better with both income loss and the psychological impacts of natural disasters. Therefore, there is firm ground to assume functional causality of the effects of education on reducing vulnerability.  One important mechanism through which education influences human well-being is neurocognitive development. Learning basic literacy, numeracy, and abstraction skills enhances cognitive capacities through raising the efficiency of individuals’ cognitive processes and logical reasoning. Accordingly, because preventive action is initiated by stressors, such as perception of risk, followed by assessments of one’s ability to respond to the threat, the more educated tend to have greater risk awareness because of better understanding of the consequences of their actions. In addition to these individual-level effects, there are also spillover effects of education at the community level.",,,Strong,,,,,1061
1770,"Magnani, E.",2017,"The International, Regional and Local Interaction in the Promotion of Cultural Tourism in Mozambique",Academic-peer reviewed,Mozambique,National,,,17.6,8.9,17,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Cooperation partnerships highlight how tourism development in the country is a multiple-scale process, in which the national level intertwines with the regional (SADC, AU) and international (WB, IUCN, UNESCO, National agencies, Ngos) level, to create a network of territorial actions at the local scale.",national tourist policy plan,,,,Strong,see page 238/3.1 and 3.2 first 2 paragraphs; page 239/3.3. first sentence ,"least developed countries should promote doublefold approach towards tourist development: increasing size and performance of tourist sector as well as widen proportion of spending in sector that reaches the poor, promoting their participation in decision-making process and in the share of revenues... need for parallel engagement in climate change adaptation and mitigation, for policies to be successful",,,238
1771,"Majeed, A.",2017,Developing Countries and Internet-of-Everything (IoE),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,9,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Various global development opportunities have been escalated through the Internet of Everything (IoE) with the potential of progressing SDGs - dramatically accelerating and improving lives of millions. The emerging economies of developing countries with minimal investments have crafted a huge array of (IoE) technologies strongly demanding interoperability and interconnectivity that are affordable, scalable and available, significantly improving people’s quality of life. Growing number of devices requiring interconnectivity referring to the concept of (IoE) headed beyond sensors, chips, computers and smartphones. The modern replete technology has enabled both synchronous and asynchronous communication without human interaction in many industrial processes, fleet management, stock exchanges, inventory systems and environment monitoring regardless of their extensive deployment. Information Communication Technology (ICT) is a fast evolving industry in developing countries, offering (IoE)’s huge potential of transformation and disruption. The global development challenges have emphasised the need for communication and due to (IoE) advancements, long-standing issues (health care, stock, management, cross-border, technology diffusion etc.) would be surmounted in an affordable and quick manner. The developing countries would turn-around with the help of a long-awaited (IoE) technology aiming at improving their economies and lives of millions of people.",,,,,Strong,"while 95% of the world has entry to a portable system, Internet access is meagre in the developing and raising world. Around 34.1% of families have an entry in the developing scene.",,,The successful provision of intelligent and smart devices through (Internet of Everyting) services leads to challenging security concerns especially in developing countries where communication and devices are cheap but there is a lack of secure (IoE) infrastructures. The current paper would envisage a secure architecture for diversely connected objects within developing countries. A secure configuration methodology of the bootstrapping scheme is proposed as a solutation that is activated as soon as a new object get connected to an operational network. This method is feasible to secure the devices and avoid data exploitation within developing countries where communication across devices is still lacking protected infrastructures.,1
1772,"Måns Nilsson, Elinor Chisholm, David Griggs, Philippa Howden-Chapman, David McCollum, Peter Messerli, Barbara Neumann, Anne-Sophie Stevance, Martin Visbeck, Mark Stafford-Smith",2018,Mapping interactions between the sustainable development goals: lessons learned and ways forward,Academic-peer reviewed,Australia,National,,,6.5,15.1,6,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"At a national level, Gao and Bryan (2017) explore the feasibility of achieving multiple targets in the Australian land use and show that managing trade-offs require targeted action in sectors such as energy, food production and water management",,,,,,,,,"Gao L, Bryan BA (2017) Finding pathways to national-scale landsector sustainability. Nature 544:217–222",
1773,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,15,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The unique biophysical and socioeconomic features of the Andean Forest Landscapes (AFL) qualify them as global priorities for conservation and sustainable management efforts and make target 15.4 of the UN SDGs specifically relevant to them. AFL are crucial to achieving many of the SDGs for the Andean region, including poverty reduction, increased food security, improved human wellbeing, effective climate action, and conservation of terrestrial ecosystems.",,,,,Strong,"The Andes support the highest species richness of vascular plants, birds, and amphibians of Earth’s biodiversity hotspots, and the region ranks second in reptile diversity. About 60 million people depend directly or indirectly on the ecosystem services provided by AFL (eg provision of timber, food, medicine, and fuelwood; local climate and water regulation; global climate regulation through carbon fixation and storage; and protection against natural disasters). Andean metropolises such as Bogota, La Paz, Quito, and Santiago de Chile have grown exponentially during the last decades and depend on the integrity of their surrounding ecosystems, particularly forests. The 5 tropical Andean countries (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela) have lost at least 50,000 km2 of their initial montane forest cover, largely due to forest clearing and the resulting degradation. These changes not only affect the ecological integrity of Andean forests, they also reduce the flow of benefits that local and extralocal human populations receive from these ecosystems.  ",,,"This article proposes a research agenda that can help guide Andean Forest Landscapes research efforts for the next 15 years, developed jointly with 48 researchers and development experts working on AFL. A conceptual framework is proposed that draws on sustainability sciences and social-ecological systems research, and a set of high-priority research goals and objectives organized into 3 broad categories is identified: systems knowledge, target knowledge, and transformation knowledge. This paper is intended to be a reference for a broad array of actors engaged in policy, research, and implementation in the Andean region. The aim is that it will trigger collaborative research initiatives for the continued conservation and sustainable governance of AFL.",324
1774,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,15,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The unique biophysical and socioeconomic features of the Andean Forest Landscapes (AFL) qualify them as global priorities for conservation and sustainable management efforts and make target 15.4 of the UN SDGs specifically relevant to them. AFL are crucial to achieving many of the SDGs for the Andean region, including poverty reduction, increased food security, improved human wellbeing, effective climate action, and conservation of terrestrial ecosystems.",,,,,Strong,"The Andes support the highest species richness of vascular plants, birds, and amphibians of Earth’s biodiversity hotspots, and the region ranks second in reptile diversity. About 60 million people depend directly or indirectly on the ecosystem services provided by AFL (eg provision of timber, food, medicine, and fuelwood; local climate and water regulation; global climate regulation through carbon fixation and storage; and protection against natural disasters). Andean metropolises such as Bogota, La Paz, Quito, and Santiago de Chile have grown exponentially during the last decades and depend on the integrity of their surrounding ecosystems, particularly forests. The 5 tropical Andean countries (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela) have lost at least 50,000 km2 of their initial montane forest cover, largely due to forest clearing and the resulting degradation. These changes not only affect the ecological integrity of Andean forests, they also reduce the flow of benefits that local and extralocal human populations receive from these ecosystems.  ",,,"This article proposes a research agenda that can help guide Andean Forest Landscapes research efforts for the next 15 years, developed jointly with 48 researchers and development experts working on AFL. A conceptual framework is proposed that draws on sustainability sciences and social-ecological systems research, and a set of high-priority research goals and objectives organized into 3 broad categories is identified: systems knowledge, target knowledge, and transformation knowledge. This paper is intended to be a reference for a broad array of actors engaged in policy, research, and implementation in the Andean region. The aim is that it will trigger collaborative research initiatives for the continued conservation and sustainable governance of AFL.",324
1775,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,15,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The unique biophysical and socioeconomic features of the Andean Forest Landscapes (AFL) qualify them as global priorities for conservation and sustainable management efforts and make target 15.4 of the UN SDGs specifically relevant to them. AFL are crucial to achieving many of the SDGs for the Andean region, including poverty reduction, increased food security, improved human wellbeing, effective climate action, and conservation of terrestrial ecosystems.",,,,,Strong,"The Andes support the highest species richness of vascular plants, birds, and amphibians of Earth’s biodiversity hotspots, and the region ranks second in reptile diversity. About 60 million people depend directly or indirectly on the ecosystem services provided by AFL (eg provision of timber, food, medicine, and fuelwood; local climate and water regulation; global climate regulation through carbon fixation and storage; and protection against natural disasters). Andean metropolises such as Bogota, La Paz, Quito, and Santiago de Chile have grown exponentially during the last decades and depend on the integrity of their surrounding ecosystems, particularly forests. The 5 tropical Andean countries (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela) have lost at least 50,000 km2 of their initial montane forest cover, largely due to forest clearing and the resulting degradation. These changes not only affect the ecological integrity of Andean forests, they also reduce the flow of benefits that local and extralocal human populations receive from these ecosystems.  ",,,"This article proposes a research agenda that can help guide Andean Forest Landscapes research efforts for the next 15 years, developed jointly with 48 researchers and development experts working on AFL. A conceptual framework is proposed that draws on sustainability sciences and social-ecological systems research, and a set of high-priority research goals and objectives organized into 3 broad categories is identified: systems knowledge, target knowledge, and transformation knowledge. This paper is intended to be a reference for a broad array of actors engaged in policy, research, and implementation in the Andean region. The aim is that it will trigger collaborative research initiatives for the continued conservation and sustainable governance of AFL.",324
1776,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,15,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The unique biophysical and socioeconomic features of the Andean Forest Landscapes (AFL) qualify them as global priorities for conservation and sustainable management efforts and make target 15.4 of the UN SDGs specifically relevant to them. AFL are crucial to achieving many of the SDGs for the Andean region, including poverty reduction, increased food security, improved human wellbeing, effective climate action, and conservation of terrestrial ecosystems.",,,,,Strong,"The Andes support the highest species richness of vascular plants, birds, and amphibians of Earth’s biodiversity hotspots, and the region ranks second in reptile diversity. About 60 million people depend directly or indirectly on the ecosystem services provided by AFL (eg provision of timber, food, medicine, and fuelwood; local climate and water regulation; global climate regulation through carbon fixation and storage; and protection against natural disasters). Andean metropolises such as Bogota, La Paz, Quito, and Santiago de Chile have grown exponentially during the last decades and depend on the integrity of their surrounding ecosystems, particularly forests. The 5 tropical Andean countries (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela) have lost at least 50,000 km2 of their initial montane forest cover, largely due to forest clearing and the resulting degradation. These changes not only affect the ecological integrity of Andean forests, they also reduce the flow of benefits that local and extralocal human populations receive from these ecosystems.  ",,,"This article proposes a research agenda that can help guide Andean Forest Landscapes research efforts for the next 15 years, developed jointly with 48 researchers and development experts working on AFL. A conceptual framework is proposed that draws on sustainability sciences and social-ecological systems research, and a set of high-priority research goals and objectives organized into 3 broad categories is identified: systems knowledge, target knowledge, and transformation knowledge. This paper is intended to be a reference for a broad array of actors engaged in policy, research, and implementation in the Andean region. The aim is that it will trigger collaborative research initiatives for the continued conservation and sustainable governance of AFL.",324
1777,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1778,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1779,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1780,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1781,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1782,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1783,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1784,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1785,"Mathez-Stiefel, S.-L., et al.",2017,Research Priorities for the Conservation and Sustainable Governance of Andean Forest Landscapes,Academic-peer reviewed,Andean Forest Landscapes,Regional,,,,,17,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The scientific knowledge produced by the proposed research agenda may contribute to a large number of SDGs and targets, with special relevance for Goal 15, but also for Goals 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 13.","To contribute to achieving the SDGs in the Andean region, research in AFL should focus on the action situations, where the links between resource systems and governance systems are concretized, as well as on their outcomes in terms of synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services and livelihood benefits for Andean populations. There is relatively little experience with such integrated research in the Andes, and necessary institutions may not yet exist. Meeting the proposed goals will require commitment to their achievement as well as enhancements to educational, research, and management capabilities. Also necessary is the strengthening of platforms for collaboration and knowledge exchange among researchers and practitioners in the region.","Systems knowlege research priorities focus on: impacts of global socio-environmental change on AFL, interactions between complex social and environmental dynamics, impacts of governance and management practices on livelihoods and ecosystem services; Target knowledge research priorities focus on: Sustainability goals for AFL management;  Transformation knowledge research priorities focus on: robust and place-based governance models, sustainable governance across scales, landscape restoration practices.",,,Strong,,"A combination of contributions from different research fields to systems, target, and transformation knowledge is urgently needed to support decision-making and guide future interventions in AFL, in order to contribute to sustainable development in the Andes. Improving our understanding of AFL social–ecological systems requires both specialized disciplinary studies to address specific knowledge gaps and interdisciplinary approaches to further disentangle the dynamic interactions among social, economic, ecologic, and political factors, as well as the links between actor interactions and related outcomes. The production of target knowledge for increased sustainability in AFL requires a transdisciplinary dialogue among actors from academia, civil society, and governments at different levels about sustainability goals and the trade-offs between multiple outcomes. Learning from the knowledge, technological skills, and experiences of local people and practitioners will be crucial for the generation of transformation knowledge. Finally, it will be essential to focus on both knowledge production and concrete interventions, in a practice of reflexive governance that challenges the normative base of both.",,,335
1786,"Matthews, N., and M. McCartney",2017,Opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks: Dams and the water energy food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,9,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Dams can safeguard food production, provide an important source of income and relatively cheap electricity, and can have direct and indirect benefits for poor people.","Over the past 15 years, dam building, and more specifically hydropower development, has been propelled forward by global shifts towards renewable energy and changes in how large-scale projects are financed. This renewed interest in hydropower has been significantly enabled by a rapid expansion of Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) that have created opportunities for governments to finance expensive dam development without the many of the social and environmental mitigation latched to loans from multilateral banks.","Too often, dams have created significant and poorly mitigated environmental and social costs through adverse impacts on ecosystem services caused by dam construction with profound implications for the health, resilience and livelihoods of the poor.  Sharing the benefits of dams and mitigating their risks and impacts is a highly complex task that cuts across social-ecological resilience and the nexus of water, food and energy. Dams may contribute positively to resilience through reduced flood events, increased economic prosperity or increased irrigation that improves food security. They may reduce resilience through negative impacts on fisheries, sedimentation and a host of freshwater ecosystem services which are vital for the livelihoods and food security on which millions of people depend.",,,Strong,"Currently, an estimated 3700 dams are planned or under construction globally",,SDG 2 -> SDG 6 SDG 2 -> SDG 7 SDG 6 -> SDG 2 SDG 6 -> SDG 7 SDG 7 -> SDG 2 SDG 7 -> SDG 6,"This article explores the opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks with regards to the water-energy-food nexus and dams. The analysis is grounded by two case studies; one in Zambia and one in Lao PDR. It demonstrates some key lessons learned for decision makers to tackle the inherent challenges and complexity in managing trade-offs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus and concludes by demonstrating that although mitigating impacts across the nexus and social-ecological resilience presents challenges and requires overcoming complexity, the need to tackle these is greater than ever.",56
1787,"Matthews, N., and M. McCartney",2017,Opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks: Dams and the water energy food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,9,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Dams can safeguard food production, provide an important source of income and relatively cheap electricity, and can have direct and indirect benefits for poor people.","Over the past 15 years, dam building, and more specifically hydropower development, has been propelled forward by global shifts towards renewable energy and changes in how large-scale projects are financed. This renewed interest in hydropower has been significantly enabled by a rapid expansion of Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) that have created opportunities for governments to finance expensive dam development without the many of the social and environmental mitigation latched to loans from multilateral banks.","Too often, dams have created significant and poorly mitigated environmental and social costs through adverse impacts on ecosystem services caused by dam construction with profound implications for the health, resilience and livelihoods of the poor.  Sharing the benefits of dams and mitigating their risks and impacts is a highly complex task that cuts across social-ecological resilience and the nexus of water, food and energy. Dams may contribute positively to resilience through reduced flood events, increased economic prosperity or increased irrigation that improves food security. They may reduce resilience through negative impacts on fisheries, sedimentation and a host of freshwater ecosystem services which are vital for the livelihoods and food security on which millions of people depend.",,,Strong,"Currently, an estimated 3700 dams are planned or under construction globally",,SDG 2 -> SDG 6 SDG 2 -> SDG 7 SDG 6 -> SDG 2 SDG 6 -> SDG 7 SDG 7 -> SDG 2 SDG 7 -> SDG 6,"This article explores the opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks with regards to the water-energy-food nexus and dams. The analysis is grounded by two case studies; one in Zambia and one in Lao PDR. It demonstrates some key lessons learned for decision makers to tackle the inherent challenges and complexity in managing trade-offs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus and concludes by demonstrating that although mitigating impacts across the nexus and social-ecological resilience presents challenges and requires overcoming complexity, the need to tackle these is greater than ever.",56
1788,"Matthews, N., and M. McCartney",2017,Opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks: Dams and the water energy food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,9,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Many academics and practitioners argue that dams represent an essential step along the development pathway and are crucial for water security,"Over the past 15 years, dam building, and more specifically hydropower development, has been propelled forward by global shifts towards renewable energy and changes in how large-scale projects are financed. This renewed interest in hydropower has been significantly enabled by a rapid expansion of Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) that have created opportunities for governments to finance expensive dam development without the many of the social and environmental mitigation latched to loans from multilateral banks.","Others question the links to increased water security and emphasize the significant social and environmental impacts of conventional “reductionist” water management approaches such as hydropower. They argue that combinations of green and small-scale infrastructure, such as wetlands, rainwater harvesting, and so forth, in combination with less gray infrastructure (dams, levees, etc.) provide a much more equitable and sustainable solution for water management and energy.  Sharing the benefits of dams and mitigating their risks and impacts is a highly complex task that cuts across social-ecological resilience and the nexus of water, food and energy. Dams may contribute positively to resilience through reduced flood events, increased economic prosperity or increased irrigation that improves food security. They may reduce resilience through negative impacts on fisheries, sedimentation and a host of freshwater ecosystem services which are vital for the livelihoods and food security on which millions of people depend.",,,Strong,"Currently, an estimated 3700 dams are planned or under construction globally",,SDG 2 -> SDG 6 SDG 2 -> SDG 7 SDG 6 -> SDG 2 SDG 6 -> SDG 7 SDG 7 -> SDG 2 SDG 7 -> SDG 6,"This article explores the opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks with regards to the water-energy-food nexus and dams. The analysis is grounded by two case studies; one in Zambia and one in Lao PDR. It demonstrates some key lessons learned for decision makers to tackle the inherent challenges and complexity in managing trade-offs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus and concludes by demonstrating that although mitigating impacts across the nexus and social-ecological resilience presents challenges and requires overcoming complexity, the need to tackle these is greater than ever.",56
1789,"Matthews, N., and M. McCartney",2017,Opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks: Dams and the water energy food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,9,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Dams can safeguard food production, provide an important source of income and relatively cheap electricity, and can have direct and indirect benefits for poor people.","Over the past 15 years, dam building, and more specifically hydropower development, has been propelled forward by global shifts towards renewable energy and changes in how large-scale projects are financed. This renewed interest in hydropower has been significantly enabled by a rapid expansion of Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) that have created opportunities for governments to finance expensive dam development without the many of the social and environmental mitigation latched to loans from multilateral banks.","Too often, dams have created significant and poorly mitigated environmental and social costs through adverse impacts on ecosystem services caused by dam construction with profound implications for the health, resilience and livelihoods of the poor.  Sharing the benefits of dams and mitigating their risks and impacts is a highly complex task that cuts across social-ecological resilience and the nexus of water, food and energy. Dams may contribute positively to resilience through reduced flood events, increased economic prosperity or increased irrigation that improves food security. They may reduce resilience through negative impacts on fisheries, sedimentation and a host of freshwater ecosystem services which are vital for the livelihoods and food security on which millions of people depend.",,,Strong,"Currently, an estimated 3700 dams are planned or under construction globally",,SDG 2 -> SDG 6 SDG 2 -> SDG 7 SDG 6 -> SDG 2 SDG 6 -> SDG 7 SDG 7 -> SDG 2 SDG 7 -> SDG 6,"This article explores the opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks with regards to the water-energy-food nexus and dams. The analysis is grounded by two case studies; one in Zambia and one in Lao PDR. It demonstrates some key lessons learned for decision makers to tackle the inherent challenges and complexity in managing trade-offs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus and concludes by demonstrating that although mitigating impacts across the nexus and social-ecological resilience presents challenges and requires overcoming complexity, the need to tackle these is greater than ever.",56
1790,"Matthews, N., and M. McCartney",2017,Opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks: Dams and the water energy food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,"Kafue Basin, Zambia",Sub-national,,,,,9,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The environmental, economic, and social trade-offs of the dams on the Kafue River are diverse and widespread and neither costs nor benefits are evenly distributed amongst stakeholders thereby impacting the social-ecological resilience of the entire Kafue system. The electricity produced by the scheme is important for the national economy of Zambia and has brought benefits to many people, particularly in urban areas. ",Quality of the decision-making process is very important. Solutions are much more likely to be sustainable if they are developed with the participation of all stakeholders thereby ensuring that the community feels influential in the planning process. Flexible management that enables modification of release regimes to accommodate greater understanding and changes in societal preferences is essential.,"Negative impacts have been borne almost entirely by the rural, generally poor, communities living downstream of the Itezhi-tezhi dam on the Kafue Flats. Managed flood releases have been made in an attempt to mitigate some of the negative impacts but, at present, there are insufficient empirical data to quantify the value of these releases.",,,Strong,"The resulting reservoir has an area of about 300 km2 and a live storage capacity of 4925 Mm3; equivalent to 56% of the long-term mean annual flow into the reservoir.  Traditionally the natural resources of the Kafue Flats have been utilised in a wide variety of ways, for both commercial and subsistence purposes. It is estimated that the resilience of more than 100,000 people is in some way dependent on the Flats [15]. Cattle grazing is a major commercial activity and it is estimated that up to 290,000 head of cattle (10% to 20% of the national herd) utilise the Flats during the dry season.","Efforts have been made to manage flood releases from the reservoir to mitigate some of the trade-offs across the necus and increase the social-ecological resilience of people and the environment. However, hydropower considerations sometimes dominated natural flow regime considerations. Studies were too few to allow an assessment of the environmental and social-economic value of the flood releases. Also, there was lack of transparency and participation in the decision-making process for the communities affected. For optimizing the flood releases, the complex and inter-related issues across the nexus need to be considered. Effective solutions would require multidisciplinary approaches including institutional change e.g. water committees establishment.  There is a need for a number of detailed environmental and social studies to fully assess the extent to which the releases have been successful and could be improved. Managed floods, although not a panacea may, in combination with other measures, mitigate some negative impacts across the nexus.",SDG 2 -> SDG 6 SDG 2 -> SDG 7 SDG 6 -> SDG 2 SDG 6 -> SDG 7 SDG 7 -> SDG 2 SDG 7 -> SDG 6,"This article explores the opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks with regards to the water-energy-food nexus and dams. The analysis is grounded by two case studies; one in Zambia and one in Lao PDR. It demonstrates some key lessons learned for decision makers to tackle the inherent challenges and complexity in managing trade-offs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus and concludes by demonstrating that although mitigating impacts across the nexus and social-ecological resilience presents challenges and requires overcoming complexity, the need to tackle these is greater than ever.",58
1791,"Matthews, N., and M. McCartney",2017,Opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks: Dams and the water energy food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,"Nam Theun 2, Lao PDR",Sub-national,,,,,9,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"the NT2 scheme was intended to showcase the development benefits arising from a large scale hydropower scheme, the potential of PPPs, as well as successful management of negative impacts. ","The development of NT2 paved the way for private sector financing and construction of future dams in Lao PDR by establishing procedures, contracts and tariffs for large-scale PPP investment in the country.  The NT2 case represents an important turning point in how the World Bank approached the complexity of tradeoffs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus with relation to hydropower development. The Bank, the developer, and the Government of Laos invested significant time and resources in attempting to mitigate the potential impact on effected people and the environment. With the development of the Dam, the World Bank helped the Government of Lao PDR prepare its current Environmental Impact Assessment regulations and develop environmental laws along with the contractual requirements to export electricity to neighbouring countries.","Despite the efforts made, the success of the developmental, environmental, and human elements of the NT2 scheme are contested. Some have concluded that NT2 “has made many achievements constituting world-class best practices in social management, with important results and achievements”. Others contend that the project has largely failed to live up to expectations and improvements in local resilience and biodiversity protection have been totally insufficient.",,,Strong,"Nam Theun 2 (NT2) is a key development project and the largest hydroelectric scheme (1070 MW) currently operating in Lao PDR. The scheme created a 450 km2 reservoir and diverts water from the Nam Theun River to the Xe Bang Fai River, both tributaries of the Mekong River. At least 995MW of the electricity generated is exported to Thailand with the remainder used in Laos. The dam was funded through a PPP model with Electricit e de France International (EDFI) owning 40%; Electricity Generating Public Company (EGCO) of Thailand 35% and the Government of Laos 25%. 6300 people (1250 households) had to be resettled as a consequence of the reservoir inundation and the livelihoods of more than 100,000 people (ca. 20,000 households) living downstream were affected by changes in river flows.",,SDG 2 -> SDG 6 SDG 2 -> SDG 7 SDG 6 -> SDG 2 SDG 6 -> SDG 7 SDG 7 -> SDG 2 SDG 7 -> SDG 6,"This article explores the opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks with regards to the water-energy-food nexus and dams. The analysis is grounded by two case studies; one in Zambia and one in Lao PDR. It demonstrates some key lessons learned for decision makers to tackle the inherent challenges and complexity in managing trade-offs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus and concludes by demonstrating that although mitigating impacts across the nexus and social-ecological resilience presents challenges and requires overcoming complexity, the need to tackle these is greater than ever.",59
1792,"Matthews, N., and M. McCartney",2017,Opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks: Dams and the water energy food nexus,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,9,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The Itezhi-tezhi and NT2 dams are progressive examples of projects that have been developed with an aim to address some key trade-offs across the nexus and social-ecological resilience.  Both cases demonstrate that meaningful participation, transparency, and multidisciplinary approaches are complex and resource intensive, but essential to ensuring that benefits and costs across water, energy, and food are managed in ways that are socially and environmentally acceptable. ",,,,,Strong,,,SDG 2 -> SDG 6 SDG 2 -> SDG 7 SDG 6 -> SDG 2 SDG 6 -> SDG 7 SDG 7 -> SDG 2 SDG 7 -> SDG 6,"This article explores the opportunities for building resilience and lessons for navigating risks with regards to the water-energy-food nexus and dams. The analysis is grounded by two case studies; one in Zambia and one in Lao PDR. It demonstrates some key lessons learned for decision makers to tackle the inherent challenges and complexity in managing trade-offs and social-ecological resilience across the nexus and concludes by demonstrating that although mitigating impacts across the nexus and social-ecological resilience presents challenges and requires overcoming complexity, the need to tackle these is greater than ever.",59
1793,"McCowan, T.",2016,Universities and the post-2015 development agenda: an analytical framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,4.3,1.2,4,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Higher education is increasingly acknowledged by national governments and international agencies as a key driver of development, and systems are expanding rapidly in response to rising demand. Moreover, universities have been attributed a central role in the post-2015 development agenda and the achievement of the SDGs. Poverty reduction and other aspects of sustainable development are unlikely to occur purely through responsiveness to market forces. Instead, proactive functions are necessary on the part of the university, as attempted—but rarely put into practice—by institutions in the developmental model. Three of these functions appear fundamental: first, investigating and determining the nature of societal challenges; second, providing solutions to those problems, and in some cases implementing those solutions; third, providing a space for construction of society’s conception of development.",,"Commodification and unbundling appear attractive options to those looking to expand opportunities for higher education in the poorest parts of the globe. A large number of nation-states lack the funds to support anything beyond a 5 % higher education enrolment rate, and the introduction of private providers and  streamlined, affordable courses seems like the only solution to the conundrum. However, there are concerns relating to inequities of access and the undermining of the public good function of universities. The combination of the profit incentive and disassociation of the diverse functions of the university also undermines its ability to provide teaching, research, and community engagement in the public interest.",,,Strong,,,also relates to all other SDGs,"This article engages assesses the changing nature of universities across the ages, and develops a theoretical model for understanding the characteristics of institutions, their relationship to society and their potential for contributing to societal development.  Under SDG 4 it is target 4.3","505, 520"
1794,"Meybeck, A., and V. Gitz",2017,Sustainable diets within sustainable food systems,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Numerous studies show the role of food consumption patterns and of their evolution in the increase of nontransmissible diseases. Many studies now point to synergies between more healthy diets and reduced environmental pressures, leading to the notion of sustainable diets, for healthy lives and healthy ecosystems.",,,,,Strong,"There are more than two billion malnourished, almost 800 million undernourished, more than one billion overweight and obese. The majority of the poor and hungry are food producers. Food production and consumption are among the main drivers of environmental degradation, threatening its own resource base. A third of the food produced is lost or wasted. According to the FAO, global food demand is projected to increase by 60 % towards 2050 from 2007, driven by changing consumption patterns and population growth.  There are major differences between countries both in increase of food consumption and in changes in dietary patterns, but in the countries experiencing food consumption increase, patterns are generally changing towards more livestock products, vegetable oils and sugar. These three food groups together now provide 29 % of total dietary energy supply of the developing countries, a share up from 20 % three decades ago, and projected to rise to 35 % in 2030 (in industrialised countries the share has been about 48 % for several decades now).",,linked to target 2.4,"The aim of the paper is to briefly consider some of the links between sustainable diets and sustainable food systems in order to facilitate the operationalisation of the concept of sustainable diet. The concept of sustainable diet was defined in 2010 combining two totally different perspectives: a nutrition perspective, focused on individuals, and a global sustainability perspective, in all its dimensions: environmental, economic and social. The nutrition perspective can be easily related to health outcomes. The global sustainability perspective is more difficult to analyse directly, it is proposed to be measured as the contribution of a diet to the sustainability of food systems.",1
1795,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs include 17 goals and 169 targets, and while environmental engineering is linked to all goals, the following three goals are examples that can drive innovation and research in the discipline: (1) Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all, (2) Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable, and (3) Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts",,,,,Strong,,"any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1796,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,11,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs include 17 goals and 169 targets, and while environmental engineering is linked to all goals, the following three goals are examples that can drive innovation and research in the discipline: (1) Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all, (2) Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable, and (3) Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts",,,,,Strong,,"any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1797,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The SDGs include 17 goals and 169 targets, and while environmental engineering is linked to all goals, the following three goals are examples that can drive innovation and research in the discipline: (1) Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all, (2) Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable, and (3) Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts",,,,,Strong,,"any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained; ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1798,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"skills and expertise that reside within the environmental engineering community are fundamental to achieve a much broader range of SDGs, including those related to health; water, energy, and food security; economic development; and reduction of poverty and social inequalities",,,,,Strong,,"The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1799,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"skills and expertise that reside within the environmental engineering community are fundamental to achieve a much broader range of SDGs, including those related to health; water, energy, and food security; economic development; and reduction of poverty and social inequalities",,,,,Strong,,"The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1800,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"skills and expertise that reside within the environmental engineering community are fundamental to achieve a much broader range of SDGs, including those related to health; water, energy, and food security; economic development; and reduction of poverty and social inequalities",,,,,Strong,"an estimated 24% of global disease burden is attributed to environmental factors, and for children under 14 years, this burden is as high as 36%  outdoor air pollution annually causes 3.7 million premature deaths and indoor air pollution results in 4.3 million premature deaths  researchers estimated that implementing rainwater harvesting could reduce DALYs by 9% for urban dwellers in 37 West African cities, and if combined with point-of-use water treatment, the reduction could increase to 16%","The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1801,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"many environmental engineers have focused efforts in developing regions on the provision and study of water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) services that include (1) identifying environmental and governance barriers to achieve sanitation coverage, (2) determining costs to meet global coverage for safe water and sanitation, (3) assessing factors that lead to changes in hand washing behavior, (4) assessing water quality during household water transport, household water storage, and self-supply groundwater systems, (5) improving our understanding of the design and operation of conventional and resource recovery-based sanitation systems, and (6) improving the design and management of hand pumps and point-of-use treatment technologies",,,,,Strong,"Great progress has been made toward achieving MDGs; in fact, 147 countries have met the 2015 target for access to improved water and 77 countries have met the 2015 target for improved sanitation. Unfortunately, 663 million people still live without improved water, 2.4 billion do not have improved sanitation, 946 million practice open defecation, and 1.5 billion use sewer collection systems without treatment. Furthermore, the disease burden associated with lack of WASH services is still high, with estimates of 502,000 diarrhea deaths due to inadequate drinking water, 280,000 diarrhea deaths from lack of sanitation, and 297,000 diarrhea deaths from lack of hand hygiene.  ","any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1802,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"skills and expertise that reside within the environmental engineering community are fundamental to achieve a much broader range of SDGs, including those related to health; water, energy, and food security; economic development; and reduction of poverty and social inequalities",,,,,Strong,,"The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1803,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"skills and expertise that reside within the environmental engineering community are fundamental to achieve a much broader range of SDGs, including those related to health; water, energy, and food security; economic development; and reduction of poverty and social inequalities",,,,,Strong,,"The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1804,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"skills and expertise that reside within the environmental engineering community are fundamental to achieve a much broader range of SDGs, including those related to health; water, energy, and food security; economic development; and reduction of poverty and social inequalities",,,,,Strong,,"The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1805,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"skills and expertise that reside within the environmental engineering community are fundamental to achieve a much broader range of SDGs, including those related to health; water, energy, and food security; economic development; and reduction of poverty and social inequalities",,,,,Strong,,"The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ",,this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,17
1806,"Mihelcic, J.R., et al.",2017,The Grandest Challenge of All: The Role of Environmental Engineering to Achieve Sustainability in the World’s Developing Regions.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Environmental engineers are well positioned to work in the top five global sectors that contribute to GHG emissions: (1) electricity and heat, (2) transportation, (3) industry, (4) land use changes, and (5) agriculture",,,,,Strong,,"The 10 environmental engineering Grand Challenges for the developing world covered are: (1) understand the historical perspective of the discipline’s connection with public health as the field transitions forward; (2) integrate the differences encountered when operating over rural to urban locations; (3) address emissions of greenhouse gases and other important carbon-containing pollutants; (4) understand the link between development and health to better connect health outcomes and reduction in risk with ecosystem management and other development interventions; (5) address the complex interactions of water energy systems; (6) integrate the synergy inherent in development/sustainability goals of WASH, food security, and resource recovery; (7) transition to a green economy; (8) advance monitoring, evaluation, and assessment activities that include life cycle assessment, (9) integrate culture, perception, and behavior with advances in science and technology, and (10) educate globally competent engineers  any transfer of technology and strategies must consider local climatic, health, socioeconomic, and cultural conditions so that mutually beneficial outcomes between developed and developing regions can be attained ","Linked to SDGs 7, 9, 15,2, 11",this article critically reviews several focus areas where environmental engineering should assume a more active presence in the global community that seeks to achieve sustainability in developing regions of the world,22
1807,"Misra, H.",2017,Facilitating financial inclusion through E-Governance: Case based study in Indian scenario,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,8.3,1.1,8,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"It is argued that financial inclusion can effectively contribute to poverty reduction, economic and social development, and financial stability.  ",,"Research indicated high correlation between financial exclusion and poverty. FI is defined as delivery of financial services at an affordable cost to the vast sections of the disadvantaged and low-income groups. Various financial services include credit, savings, insurance and payments and remittance facilities. The objective of financial inclusion is to extend the scope of activities of the organized financial system to include people with low income within its ambit",,,Strong,"Globally, around 2.5 billion people remain without having a bank account and this population is largely being related to the development (individual income, education, gender etc.) of the concerned country. It is found that 90% of the adult population in high-income countries has bank account whereas only 41% developing countries have an account in a bank","Financial inclusion that aims at extending financial and related services to all citizens is considered an important contributor to development. It is argued that financial inclusion, as a strategy, would encourage citizens to enhance their activity portfolios and would encourage savings, empower women, facilitate remittance, boost production and consumption. E-Governance services are aimed at interventions with the primary purpose of enhancing citizen engagements on line, creating enabling conditions for interactions. Focus of E-Governance services is also on empowering citizens with the scope to reduce information asymmetry, transact on line; establish networks to augment their activities in production, consumption, income, expenditure, access to government services and participation in decision making etc. Therefore, it is important to explore the scope for E- Governance strategies to support financial inclusion services and provide synergy.",,This paper seeks to understand the convergence of Egovernance interventions in fostering financial inclusion services,226
1808,"Misra, H.",2017,Facilitating financial inclusion through E-Governance: Case based study in Indian scenario,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,8.3,1.2,8,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"It is argued that financial inclusion can effectively contribute to poverty reduction, economic and social development, and financial stability.  ",,"Research indicated high correlation between financial exclusion and poverty. FI is defined as delivery of financial services at an affordable cost to the vast sections of the disadvantaged and low-income groups. Various financial services include credit, savings, insurance and payments and remittance facilities. The objective of financial inclusion is to extend the scope of activities of the organized financial system to include people with low income within its ambit",,,Strong,"Globally, around 2.5 billion people remain without having a bank account and this population is largely being related to the development (individual income, education, gender etc.) of the concerned country. It is found that 90% of the adult population in high-income countries has bank account whereas only 41% developing countries have an account in a bank","Financial inclusion that aims at extending financial and related services to all citizens is considered an important contributor to development. It is argued that financial inclusion, as a strategy, would encourage citizens to enhance their activity portfolios and would encourage savings, empower women, facilitate remittance, boost production and consumption. E-Governance services are aimed at interventions with the primary purpose of enhancing citizen engagements on line, creating enabling conditions for interactions. Focus of E-Governance services is also on empowering citizens with the scope to reduce information asymmetry, transact on line; establish networks to augment their activities in production, consumption, income, expenditure, access to government services and participation in decision making etc. Therefore, it is important to explore the scope for E- Governance strategies to support financial inclusion services and provide synergy.",,This paper seeks to understand the convergence of Egovernance interventions in fostering financial inclusion services,226
