,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
1139,IPCC,2018,"Sustainable Development, Poverty Eradication and Reducing Inequalities, In: Global Warming of 1.5°C",Global Assessment,,Global,,,12.1,8.3,12,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Behavioural Response (Responsible Sourcing) & Decent Job Creation and Sustainable Economic Growth (8.3/8.4): Some standards seek primarily to coordinate global trade, many purport to promote ecological sustainability and social justice or to institutionalize CSR, for example, labour standards developed in the wake of sweatshops and child labour scandals. Environmental standards for pollution control, etc. Indonesian factories may seek advantages through non-price competition—perhaps by highlighting decent working conditions or the existence of a union—or to see trade associations or government promoting the country as a responsible sourcing location.",Mitigation options in Forest,,,,,,,,"Bartley, 2010",509
1140,"Abel, G.J. et al.",2016,Meeting the Sustainable Development Goals leads to lower world population growth,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,4.5,3.2,4,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Consistently, more-educated women experience lower fertility and lower child mortality, particularly during the process of demographic transition, and more-educated men and women have higher life expectancies.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper is focused on modelling population dynamics showing that advances in female education and reproductive health can contribute greatly to reducing world population growth, modelling is based on many assumptions, paper suggests that many of the SDGs if reached will have important effects in (lowering fertility rates) and mortality rates in future particularly in least developed countries; ",14295
1141,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.1,2.1,14,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Preventing and reducing marine pollution reduces impacts to marine ecosystems and their food production and contamination of seafood, contributing to improving the health of human populations. Achieving this target can contribute to improving food security and health, and may reduce poverty and inequalities within and among countries","• Account for multi-scale sources of pollution, such as agricultural and urban run-off that can cause anoxic zones, in addition to visible pollution such as coastal trash and debris. • Consider potential benefits beyond fisheries, such as tourism, nutritional quality, and health care costs.",,,,,4-12 million MT of plastic waste enter the oceans each year … US$13 billion in damage caused,,,,"7, 10, 24"
1142,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.1,3.9,14,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Preventing and reducing marine pollution reduces impacts to marine ecosystems and their food production and contamination of seafood, contributing to improving the health of human populations. Achieving this target can contribute to improving food security and health, and may reduce poverty and inequalities within and among countries","• Account for multi-scale sources of pollution, such as agricultural and urban run-off that can cause anoxic zones, in addition to visible pollution such as coastal trash and debris. • Consider potential benefits beyond fisheries, such as tourism, nutritional quality, and health care costs.",,,,,4-12 million MT of plastic waste enter the oceans each year / US$15 billion in health costs from mercury released from coal-burning and other human activities (Europe and the US),,,,"7, 10, 24"
1143,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.1,14.2,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Preventing and reducing marine pollution reduces impacts to marine ecosystems and their food production and contamination of seafood, contributing to improving the health of human populations. Achieving this target can contribute to improving food security and health, and may reduce poverty and inequalities within and among countries","• Account for multi-scale sources of pollution, such as agricultural and urban run-off that can cause anoxic zones, in addition to visible pollution such as coastal trash and debris. • Consider potential benefits beyond fisheries, such as tourism, nutritional quality, and health care costs.",,,,,4-12 million MT of plastic waste enter the oceans each year … US$13 billion in damage caused,,,,"7, 10, 24"
1144,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.2,13.2,14,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Sustainably managing and restoring marine ecosystems promotes ecologically resilient oceans that can produce more food and economic benefits in the longer term, as well as mitigate carbon emissions and withstand impacts of climate change such as sea level rise and coral bleaching.","• Include a broad set of ecosystems in restoration efforts, such as seagrass beds, sand flats, mangrove and kelp forests, marshes, and coral and rocky reefs. • Accompany restoration with social ventures to promote alternative livelihoods and ongoing stewardship to prevent future degradation.",,,,,"Restored ocean systems and coastal habitats can help mitigate carbon emissions and increase ecological resistance and resilience to climate change impacts (SDG 13), contribute to mitigating coastal erosion and flooding, and help prevent contamination of local wells with saltwater, ensuring clean water and sanitation (SDG 6).",,,,"7, 13, 24"
1145,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.2,14.2,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Sustainably managing and restoring marine ecosystems promotes ecologically resilient oceans that can produce more food and economic benefits in the longer term, as well as mitigate carbon emissions and withstand impacts of climate change such as sea level rise and coral bleaching.","• Include a broad set of ecosystems in restoration efforts, such as seagrass beds, sand flats, mangrove and kelp forests, marshes, and coral and rocky reefs. • Accompany restoration with social ventures to promote alternative livelihoods and ongoing stewardship to prevent future degradation.",,,,,"97,7% of the worldʼs ocean habitats have been impacted by humans / >90% of ecologically important species depleted by human impacts / 65% of seagrass and wetland habitats destroyed",,,,"7, 12, 24"
1146,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.3,13.2,14,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Reducing impacts from ocean acidification is of central importance to combating climate change impacts (SDG 13). 30% of CO2 emitted from human activities captured by oceans,"• Reducing global ocean acidification will require global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. • Local hotspots of acidity can be mitigated by regulating storm-water surge, coastal erosion and land use that contribute to runoff, and the use and release of nitrous oxides and sulfur oxides in agriculture and fossil-fuel burning.",,,,,30% of CO2 emitted from human activities captured by oceans / Ocean acidity expected to increase by 70% by 2050 and 130% by 2100,,,,"13, 24"
1147,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.3,14.2,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Mitigating ocean acidification reduces the large-scale direct impacts of carbon dioxide on marine biodiversity and resource productivity. Achieving this target will thus reduce the risks of future scarcity and competition for living resources,"• Reducing global ocean acidification will require global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. • Local hotspots of acidity can be mitigated by regulating storm-water surge, coastal erosion and land use that contribute to runoff, and the use and release of nitrous oxides and sulfur oxides in agriculture and fossil-fuel burning.",,,,,"Ocean acidification causes higher mortality and shell dissolution of corals, some algal species, and shellfish",,,,"7, 13, 24"
1148,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.4,2.1,14,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ending overfishing, illegal and destructive fisheries promotes the recovery of fish stocks, improving food security and sustainable livelihoods of coastal communities. Restructuring fisheries can promote sustainable industrialization and innovation, and build ecological resilience to climate change impacts.","• Operationalize ecosystem-based fisheries management, and make fisheries management adaptive to climate change. • Promote human rights, equitable access rights and privileges (e.g. cooperative rights) that avoid social and economic power imbalances to prevent conflict. • Support local and regional initiatives to decrease overfishing.",,,,,Sustainably managed fisheries and the end of overfishing could: Provide livelihoods and reduce poverty; Limit hunger; Contribute to sustained economic growth; Contribute to ocean conservation; Contribute to conserving terrestrial biodiversity,,,,"7, 17, 24"
1149,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.4,13.1,14,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ending overfishing, illegal and destructive fisheries promotes the recovery of fish stocks, improving food security and sustainable livelihoods of coastal communities. Restructuring fisheries can promote sustainable industrialization and innovation, and build ecological resilience to climate change impacts.","• Operationalize ecosystem-based fisheries management, and make fisheries management adaptive to climate change. • Promote human rights, equitable access rights and privileges (e.g. cooperative rights) that avoid social and economic power imbalances to prevent conflict. • Support local and regional initiatives to decrease overfishing.",,,,,Sustainably managed fisheries and the end of overfishing could: Provide livelihoods and reduce poverty; Limit hunger; Contribute to sustained economic growth; Contribute to ocean conservation; Contribute to conserving terrestrial biodiversity,,,,"7, 17, 24"
1150,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.4,14.2,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ending overfishing, illegal and destructive fisheries promotes the recovery of fish stocks, improving food security and sustainable livelihoods of coastal communities. Restructuring fisheries can promote sustainable industrialization and innovation, and build ecological resilience to climate change impacts.","• Operationalize ecosystem-based fisheries management, and make fisheries management adaptive to climate change. • Promote human rights, equitable access rights and privileges (e.g. cooperative rights) that avoid social and economic power imbalances to prevent conflict. • Support local and regional initiatives to decrease overfishing.",,,,,Sustainably managed fisheries and the end of overfishing could: Provide livelihoods and reduce poverty; Limit hunger; Contribute to sustained economic growth; Contribute to ocean conservation; Contribute to conserving terrestrial biodiversity,,,,"7, 17, 24"
1151,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.4,14.7,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ending overfishing, illegal and destructive fisheries promotes the recovery of fish stocks, improving food security and sustainable livelihoods of coastal communities. Restructuring fisheries can promote sustainable industrialization and innovation, and build ecological resilience to climate change impacts.","• Operationalize ecosystem-based fisheries management, and make fisheries management adaptive to climate change. • Promote human rights, equitable access rights and privileges (e.g. cooperative rights) that avoid social and economic power imbalances to prevent conflict. • Support local and regional initiatives to decrease overfishing.",,,,,Sustainably managed fisheries and the end of overfishing could: Provide livelihoods and reduce poverty; Limit hunger; Contribute to sustained economic growth; Contribute to ocean conservation; Contribute to conserving terrestrial biodiversity,,,,"7, 17, 24"
1152,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.5,2.1,14,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The protection of marine areas supports biodiversity, ecosystem function, and sustainable resource use, which potentially contributes to long-term food and job security. In order to realize these important contributions and avoid negative outcomes for coastal communities, marine protected areas must be designed inclusively and collaboratively.","• Create protected area networks that anticipate climate change impacts beyond political boundaries. • Engage local communities in planning and managing protected areas, and improve cross-sectoral cooperation to ensure social acceptance for implementation.",,,,,"Research on the biological impacts of marine protected areas has concluded that, on average, these spatial management measures can increase marine organism biomass by 446%, density by 166%, size by 28%, and marine community species richness by 21%.. Can also potentially increase food security and tourism",,,,"7, 18, 24"
1153,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.5,12.2,14,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The protection of marine areas supports biodiversity, ecosystem function, and sustainable resource use, which potentially contributes to long-term food and job security. In order to realize these important contributions and avoid negative outcomes for coastal communities, marine protected areas must be designed inclusively and collaboratively.","• Create protected area networks that anticipate climate change impacts beyond political boundaries. • Engage local communities in planning and managing protected areas, and improve cross-sectoral cooperation to ensure social acceptance for implementation.",,,,,"Research on the biological impacts of marine protected areas has concluded that, on average, these spatial management measures can increase marine organism biomass by 446%, density by 166%, size by 28%, and marine community species richness by 21%.. Can also potentially increase food security and tourism",,,,"7, 18, 24"
1154,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.5,14.2,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The protection of marine areas supports biodiversity, ecosystem function, and sustainable resource use, which potentially contributes to long-term food and job security. In order to realize these important contributions and avoid negative outcomes for coastal communities, marine protected areas must be designed inclusively and collaboratively.","• Create protected area networks that anticipate climate change impacts beyond political boundaries. • Engage local communities in planning and managing protected areas, and improve cross-sectoral cooperation to ensure social acceptance for implementation.",,,,,"Research on the biological impacts of marine protected areas has concluded that, on average, these spatial management measures can increase marine organism biomass by 446%, density by 166%, size by 28%, and marine community species richness by 21%.. Can also potentially increase food security and tourism",,,,"7, 18, 24"
1155,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.5,14.7,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The protection of marine areas supports biodiversity, ecosystem function, and sustainable resource use, which potentially contributes to long-term food and job security. In order to realize these important contributions and avoid negative outcomes for coastal communities, marine protected areas must be designed inclusively and collaboratively.","• Create protected area networks that anticipate climate change impacts beyond political boundaries. • Engage local communities in planning and managing protected areas, and improve cross-sectoral cooperation to ensure social acceptance for implementation.",,,,,"Research on the biological impacts of marine protected areas has concluded that, on average, these spatial management measures can increase marine organism biomass by 446%, density by 166%, size by 28%, and marine community species richness by 21%.. Can also potentially increase food security and tourism",,,,"7, 18, 24"
1156,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.5,15.5,14,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The protection of marine areas supports biodiversity, ecosystem function, and sustainable resource use, which potentially contributes to long-term food and job security. In order to realize these important contributions and avoid negative outcomes for coastal communities, marine protected areas must be designed inclusively and collaboratively.","• Create protected area networks that anticipate climate change impacts beyond political boundaries. • Engage local communities in planning and managing protected areas, and improve cross-sectoral cooperation to ensure social acceptance for implementation.",,,,,"Research on the biological impacts of marine protected areas has concluded that, on average, these spatial management measures can increase marine organism biomass by 446%, density by 166%, size by 28%, and marine community species richness by 21%.. Can also potentially increase food security and tourism",,,,"7, 18, 24"
1157,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.6,10.4,14,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Reforming fisheries subsidies actively remedies inequalities in fisheries. Redesigned public investments mitigate underlying causes of overfishing and promote sustainable production and consumption, contributing to increasing adaptive capacity of fisheries to climate change.","• Eliminate all subsidies to vessels engaged in illegal fishing practices, including labor abuses. Avoid vessel buy-back schemes. • Shift capacity-enhancing subsidies toward investments to develop profitable sustainable fishing operations, climate adaptation and improve social safety nets.",,,,,"It is estimated that these types of subsidies (leading to overfishing) currently make up 60-70% of the estimated US$34 billion of public finance conferred annually to fisheries worldwide. / $35B of yearly subsidies worldwide and $90B yearly revenue from fishing worldwide / Top 3 countries are Japan ($4.54B), China ($4.51B) and the United States ($4,09B) / Money is going to Fuel subsidies ($7,57B), Management ($7.14B). Ports and harbours ($3,46B). Fleet modernization ($3,30B) amd Research & development ($2,71B)",,,,"7, 21, 24"
1158,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.6,10.4,14,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Reforming fisheries subsidies actively remedies inequalities in fisheries. Redesigned public investments mitigate underlying causes of overfishing and promote sustainable production and consumption, contributing to increasing adaptive capacity of fisheries to climate change.","• Eliminate all subsidies to vessels engaged in illegal fishing practices, including labor abuses. Avoid vessel buy-back schemes. • Shift capacity-enhancing subsidies toward investments to develop profitable sustainable fishing operations, climate adaptation and improve social safety nets.",,,,,"It is estimated that these types of subsidies (leading to overfishing) currently make up 60-70% of the estimated US$34 billion of public finance conferred annually to fisheries worldwide. / $35B of yearly subsidies worldwide and $90B yearly revenue from fishing worldwide / Top 3 countries are Japan ($4.54B), China ($4.51B) and the United States ($4,09B) / Money is going to Fuel subsidies ($7,57B), Management ($7.14B). Ports and harbours ($3,46B). Fleet modernization ($3,30B) amd Research & development ($2,71B)",,,,"7, 21, 24"
1159,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.6,13.1,14,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Reforming fisheries subsidies actively remedies inequalities in fisheries. Redesigned public investments mitigate underlying causes of overfishing and promote sustainable production and consumption, contributing to increasing adaptive capacity of fisheries to climate change.","• Eliminate all subsidies to vessels engaged in illegal fishing practices, including labor abuses. Avoid vessel buy-back schemes. • Shift capacity-enhancing subsidies toward investments to develop profitable sustainable fishing operations, climate adaptation and improve social safety nets.",,,,,"It is estimated that these types of subsidies (leading to overfishing) currently make up 60-70% of the estimated US$34 billion of public finance conferred annually to fisheries worldwide. / $35B of yearly subsidies worldwide and $90B yearly revenue from fishing worldwide / Top 3 countries are Japan ($4.54B), China ($4.51B) and the United States ($4,09B) / Money is going to Fuel subsidies ($7,57B), Management ($7.14B). Ports and harbours ($3,46B). Fleet modernization ($3,30B) amd Research & development ($2,71B)",,,,"7, 21, 24"
1160,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.7,1.1,14,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Increasing sustainable benefits to Small Island Developing States and Least Developed Countries through investment and development of local capacity, community engagement, infrastructure, and innovation increases marine industries contributions to local sustainable economic development, which could contribute to food security and poverty alleviation. Achieving this target may increase adaptive capacity of these countries to climate change.","• Foster strong and durable partnerships, including with the private sector, to promote sustainable business activities (e.g., certified fisheries, offshore aquaculture, renewable energy generation, eco-tourism). • Economic activities should strengthen and develop local capacity and skills as well as increase opportunities for SIDs & LDCs to access local and international markets.",,,,,"In Small Island Developing States and Least Developed Countries (SIDS & LDC), fish trade represents ~3% of GDP, with fish accounting for 7% of total exports. Tourism contributes to development of most SIDS, with >40 million visitors contributing 20-50% of foreign exchange and over 30% of employment. Sustainable management of fisheries can strengthen local markets, as 90% of people’s animal protein source is fish, with per capita annual consumption as high as ~160kg",,,,"7, 22, 24"
1161,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.7,2.1,14,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Increasing sustainable benefits to Small Island Developing States and Least Developed Countries through investment and development of local capacity, community engagement, infrastructure, and innovation increases marine industries contributions to local sustainable economic development, which could contribute to food security and poverty alleviation. Achieving this target may increase adaptive capacity of these countries to climate change.","• Foster strong and durable partnerships, including with the private sector, to promote sustainable business activities (e.g., certified fisheries, offshore aquaculture, renewable energy generation, eco-tourism). • Economic activities should strengthen and develop local capacity and skills as well as increase opportunities for SIDs & LDCs to access local and international markets.",,,,,"In Small Island Developing States and Least Developed Countries (SIDS & LDC), fish trade represents ~3% of GDP, with fish accounting for 7% of total exports. Tourism contributes to development of most SIDS, with >40 million visitors contributing 20-50% of foreign exchange and over 30% of employment. Sustainable management of fisheries can strengthen local markets, as 90% of people’s animal protein source is fish, with per capita annual consumption as high as ~160kg",,,,"7, 22, 24"
1162,"Andrés M Cisneros-Montemayor, William Cheung, Yoshitaka Ota, Patrick Neal Halpin",2017,"Oceans and the Sustainable Development Goals: Co-benefits, Climate Change & Social Equity",Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,,,14,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Preventing and reducing marine pollution reduces impacts to marine ecosystems and their food production and contamination of seafood, contributing to improving the health of human populations. Achieving this target can contribute to improving food security and health, and may reduce poverty and inequalities within and among countries","• Account for multi-scale sources of pollution, such as agricultural and urban run-off that can cause anoxic zones, in addition to visible pollution such as coastal trash and debris. • Consider potential benefits beyond fisheries, such as tourism, nutritional quality, and health care costs.",,,,,4-12 million MT of plastic waste enter the oceans each year … US$13 billion in damage caused,,,,"7, 10, 24"
1163,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,2.3,2.1,2,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,13.1/13.2 > 2.3 > 2.1,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1164,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,,,10,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Low-income and other marginalised groups are more likely to live in hazardous places, such as floodplains or steep slopes, and to be excluded from access to public infrastructure and services, such as drainage or water supply systems, much of which serves to reduce risk. This typically leads to higher rates of ill health, which in turn makes people more susceptible to other climate impacts such as vector- borne diseases ",,,,,Strong,,,,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1165,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,11.1,3.3,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Low-income and other marginalised groups are more likely to live in hazardous places, such as floodplains or steep slopes, and to be excluded from access to public infrastructure and services, such as drainage or water supply systems, much of which serves to reduce risk. This typically leads to higher rates of ill health, which in turn makes people more susceptible to other climate impacts such as vector- borne diseases ",,,,,Strong,,,,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1166,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,12.2,2.1,12,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1167,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,12.2,6.1,12,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1168,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,13.1,2.3,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,13.1/13.2 > 2.3 > 2.1,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1169,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,13.1,11.5,13,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Over the coming decades, most Asian cities will face increasing physical exposure to climate-related shocks and stresses",,,,,Strong,,,,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1170,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,13.1,14.2,13,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,13.1/13.2 > 14.2 > 2.1,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1171,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,13.2,2.3,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,13.1/13.2 > 2.3 > 2.1,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1172,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,13.2,14.2,13,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,13.1/13.2 > 14.2 > 2.1,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1173,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,,,13,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Other cities are likely to experience more regular flooding and heatwaves, which have direct health costs but are also likely to increase the risk of malaria, dengue fever and diarrhoeal diseases",,,,,Strong,,,13 > 3 > 11,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1174,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,14.2,2.1,14,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Both water and food scarcity are likely to increase. This is partially due to growing demand and poor resource management, but food shortfalls may also be attributed to the falling productivity of key crops (particularly rice) and marine ecosystems with a warmer climate... These climate change impacts will have particularly severe consequences in urban areas, which are “hotspots of high risk given their concentrations of population and infrastructure [and] their key roles for larger economic, political and social processes...",,,,,Strong,,,13.1/13.2 > 14.2 > 2.1,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1175,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,,,14,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Coastal cities will grapple with rising sea levels as well as more frequent and intense typhoons and storm surges. The impacts of these hazards may be exacerbated by the decline in mangroves, salt marshes and coastal freshwater swamps, which currently provide a natural buffer against environmental hazards.",,,,,Strong,,,,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,3
1176,"Archer, D. et al. ",2016,Responding to climate change in Asian cities: Governance for a more resilient urban future,Academic-peer reviewed,Asian cities,Regional,,,,,16,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The chapters highlight the importance of flexible and responsive institutions that draw on diverse forms of knowledge and engage with a wide range of actors, particularly low- income and other marginalised urban residents. These characteristics allow governments and other decision makers to identify and respond to emerging risks more effectively.",,,,,Strong,,,,book focuses on the importance of governance to increase resilience in Asian cities,10
1177,"Avellán, T., et al.",2017,Making the Water-Soil-Waste Nexus Work: Framing the Boundaries of Resource Flows,Academic-peer reviewed,"Mezquital Valley, Mexico",Local,,,12.5,2.3,12,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The use of wastewater represents a valuable resource in regional agricultural production, due to: (i) the continuous supply of irrigation water; and (ii) the repeated nutrient input to the soil. As a result, wastewater irrigated agriculture provides five times the maize yield (10.0 t/ha) than rainfed maize (2.0 t/ha)",,"Several scientific studies describe specific impacts of serious health-related and environmental issues and support the recent opinion of Siebe et al., who concluded there is a need to improve the ongoing management of the system.",,,,,,,"The paper looks at integrated management systems and their boundaries, focusing in particular at the Water-Soil-Waste Nexus system.",10
1178,"Bijl, D.L., et al.",2017,A physically-based model of long-term food demand,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,10.1,2.1,10,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The estimated global number of undernourished people in baseline scenario SSP-2 is projected to decrease from roughly 700 million in 2015 to roughly 270 million in 2050 and almost zero in 2100, depending on both income growth, a reduction of variance in food consumption within population segments, and income inequality between population segments.",,,,,,,,,"The paper focuses on the development of a global food demand model (aimed at long-term developments; being physically based by simulating calories, proteins and grams of food consumed per person per day; incorporating heterogeneities between regions and income inequality in urban and rural populations within regions; and having sufficiently detailed food categories to run dietary change scenarios with Integrated Assessment Models that project land use and other environmental impacts). The model is used to investigate how physical food demand develops in the long-term future, and to evaluate options for making the food system more sustainable.",60
1179,"Bijl, D.L., et al.",2017,A physically-based model of long-term food demand,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,10.1,2.2,10,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The estimated global number of undernourished people in baseline scenario SSP-2 is projected to decrease from roughly 700 million in 2015 to roughly 270 million in 2050 and almost zero in 2100, depending on both income growth, a reduction of variance in food consumption within population segments, and income inequality between population segments.",,,,,,,,,"The paper focuses on the development of a global food demand model (aimed at long-term developments; being physically based by simulating calories, proteins and grams of food consumed per person per day; incorporating heterogeneities between regions and income inequality in urban and rural populations within regions; and having sufficiently detailed food categories to run dietary change scenarios with Integrated Assessment Models that project land use and other environmental impacts). The model is used to investigate how physical food demand develops in the long-term future, and to evaluate options for making the food system more sustainable.",60
1180,"Blanchard, J.L., et al.",2017,"Linked sustainability challenges and trade-offs among fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"...increases in fish production to meet the food and livelihood demands of the growing human population, projected to reach 9.7 billion by 2050, will increase pressure on marine and terrestrial ecosystems unless there are significant reductions in the environmental impact of many existing production systems (SDG12, responsible production and consumption; SDG14, life below water; SDG15, life on land). ","Many links between biodiversity threat status, human development, fisheries and aquaculture dependency and agricultural dependency are driven by processes and decisions at national scales.",,,,Strong,,,,,1240
1181,"Blanchard, J.L., et al.",2017,"Linked sustainability challenges and trade-offs among fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"...increases in fish production to meet the food and livelihood demands of the growing human population, projected to reach 9.7 billion by 2050, will increase pressure on marine and terrestrial ecosystems unless there are significant reductions in the environmental impact of many existing production systems (SDG12, responsible production and consumption; SDG14, life below water; SDG15, life on land). ","Many links between biodiversity threat status, human development, fisheries and aquaculture dependency and agricultural dependency are driven by processes and decisions at national scales.",,,,Strong,,,,,1240
1182,"Blanchard, J.L., et al.",2017,"Linked sustainability challenges and trade-offs among fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,Interaction impact will be felt beyond 15 years,,,13,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Fisheries and agriculture interact with climate change and biodiversity, leading to profound changes in ecosystem structure and function...For any particular marine or terrestrial species, impacts of increased temperature depend on optimal temperatures for growth and reproduction, affecting habitat suitability. Species redistributions, tightly linked to changes in habitat suitability and climate velocities, are likely to impact ecosystems and food production in ways that are not yet fully understood. Large changes in catch  composition were linked to warming from 1982 to 2006 that was especially rapid in the sub-Arctic Gyre, European and East Asian Seas, which warmed at 2–4 times the global rate. On land, global wheat yields were estimated to have decreased by 5.5% on average due to warming between 1980 and 2008... Under all climate change scenarios there are risks of negative impacts on marine and terrestrial production","Many links between biodiversity threat status, human development, fisheries and aquaculture dependency and agricultural dependency are driven by processes and decisions at national scales.",findings show substantial heterogeneity in climate impacts on food systems and emphasize the need to better understand the complex and country-specific trade-offs that will be involved in maintaining or achieving food security while minimizing land–sea  biodiversity threats and adapting to climate change.,,,Strong,,,13 -> 14 -> 2,,1244
1183,"Blanchard, J.L., et al.",2017,"Linked sustainability challenges and trade-offs among fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,Interaction impact will be felt beyond 15 years,,,13,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Fisheries and agriculture interact with climate change and biodiversity, leading to profound changes in ecosystem structure and function...For any particular marine or terrestrial species, impacts of increased temperature depend on optimal temperatures for growth and reproduction, affecting habitat suitability. Species redistributions, tightly linked to changes in habitat suitability and climate velocities, are likely to impact ecosystems and food production in ways that are not yet fully understood. Large changes in catch  composition were linked to warming from 1982 to 2006 that was especially rapid in the sub-Arctic Gyre, European and East Asian Seas, which warmed at 2–4 times the global rate. On land, global wheat yields were estimated to have decreased by 5.5% on average due to warming between 1980 and 2008... Under all climate change scenarios there are risks of negative impacts on marine and terrestrial production","Many links between biodiversity threat status, human development, fisheries and aquaculture dependency and agricultural dependency are driven by processes and decisions at national scales.",findings show substantial heterogeneity in climate impacts on food systems and emphasize the need to better understand the complex and country-specific trade-offs that will be involved in maintaining or achieving food security while minimizing land–sea  biodiversity threats and adapting to climate change.,,,Strong,,,13 -> 15 -> 2,,1244
1184,"Blanchard, J.L., et al.",2017,"Linked sustainability challenges and trade-offs among fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,14,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Fisheries and agriculture interact with climate change and biodiversity, leading to profound changes in ecosystem structure and function...For any particular marine or terrestrial species, impacts of increased temperature depend on optimal temperatures for growth and reproduction, affecting habitat suitability. Species redistributions, tightly linked to changes in habitat suitability and climate velocities, are likely to impact ecosystems and food production in ways that are not yet fully understood. Large changes in catch  composition were linked to warming from 1982 to 2006 that was especially rapid in the sub-Arctic Gyre, European and East Asian Seas, which warmed at 2–4 times the global rate. On land, global wheat yields were estimated to have decreased by 5.5% on average due to warming between 1980 and 2008... Under all climate change scenarios there are risks of negative impacts on marine and terrestrial production","Many links between biodiversity threat status, human development, fisheries and aquaculture dependency and agricultural dependency are driven by processes and decisions at national scales.",,,,Strong,,,13 -> 14 -> 2,,1244
1185,"Blanchard, J.L., et al.",2017,"Linked sustainability challenges and trade-offs among fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Fisheries and agriculture interact with climate change and biodiversity, leading to profound changes in ecosystem structure and function...For any particular marine or terrestrial species, impacts of increased temperature depend on optimal temperatures for growth and reproduction, affecting habitat suitability. Species redistributions, tightly linked to changes in habitat suitability and climate velocities, are likely to impact ecosystems and food production in ways that are not yet fully understood. Large changes in catch  composition were linked to warming from 1982 to 2006 that was especially rapid in the sub-Arctic Gyre, European and East Asian Seas, which warmed at 2–4 times the global rate. On land, global wheat yields were estimated to have decreased by 5.5% on average due to warming between 1980 and 2008... Under all climate change scenarios there are risks of negative impacts on marine and terrestrial production","Many links between biodiversity threat status, human development, fisheries and aquaculture dependency and agricultural dependency are driven by processes and decisions at national scales.",,,,Strong,,,13 -> 15 -> 2,,1244
1186,"Bouma, J.",2018,"The challenge of soil science meeting society’s demands in a “post-truth”, “fact free” world",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,15.3,6.6,15,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Again, many disciplines are involved, including soils. Soil function 2 is most prominent here and function 6 as well, as a higher organic matter content increases the filtration capacity of soils. The highest volume of fresh water in nature is present as “Green Water” in the unsaturated zone of soils (Falkenmark, 1995). Texture, structure and wettability of soils determine infiltration rates of water into the soil and its capacity to retain water, which, in turn, is crucial for plant growth.",,,,,Strong,see column 14,The paper mentions the involvement of many different discplines. Wastewater reuse for soil irrigation is mentioned as a promising future research area for soil science.  Overall suggested possible future activities of soil scence on page 27 under 7./2.,,"The paper looks at how soil science links to the SDGs, their starting point are the 7 basic soil functions defined by the EC (table 1 on page 25).  SDG's are approached through soil functions connecting with ecosystem services, which require interdisciplinary research approaches. Avoid being just a data-provider but be engaged as a full partner in interdisciplinary programs. Soil science has a central position when considering SDG's and a comprehensive systems analysis of the soil-water-plant-climate system, aiming at several SDG's at the same time, will be a promising key for future research. Even though much can be done with existing soil data, information and knowledge, new innovative research (to be justified as being essential to reach certain SDG's as available methods are inadequate) is crucial to keep the science field alive.  Under SDG 17 it is probably mainly 17.6 and/or 17.16 that apply. ",26
1187,"Bouma, J.",2018,"The challenge of soil science meeting society’s demands in a “post-truth”, “fact free” world",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,15.3,13.2,15,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Soil function 6 is most prominent here but also functions 2 and 1 play a role as functions that strongly affect organic matter formation. Soils plays a particular role in SDG 13 because at the COP21 climate conference in Paris in December 2015 the French proposal “4per1000” was accepted, intended to increase the %C of soils as a mitigation measure. The oceans are the largest source of C in ecosystems, followed by soils. Improved soil management by incorporating green and organic manure or compost can have a positive effect but not in the same way in different soils.",,,,,Strong,see column 14,more on page 26  Overall suggested possible future activities of soil scence on page 27 under 7./2.,,"The paper looks at how soil science links to the SDGs, their starting point are the 7 basic soil functions defined by the EC (table 1 on page 25).  SDG's are approached through soil functions connecting with ecosystem services, which require interdisciplinary research approaches. Avoid being just a data-provider but be engaged as a full partner in interdisciplinary programs. Soil science has a central position when considering SDG's and a comprehensive systems analysis of the soil-water-plant-climate system, aiming at several SDG's at the same time, will be a promising key for future research. Even though much can be done with existing soil data, information and knowledge, new innovative research (to be justified as being essential to reach certain SDG's as available methods are inadequate) is crucial to keep the science field alive.  Under SDG 17 it is probably mainly 17.6 and/or 17.16 that apply. ",26
1188,"Bowen, K. J., et al.",2017,"Implementing the “Sustainable Development Goals”: towards addressing three key governance challenges— collective action, trade-offs, and accountability",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,1.4,8.4,1,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"decoupling resource use and environmental impact from socio-economic development remains a fundamental global challenge. Rather than this being the basis for conflict, however, equitable distribution of resources required for human wellbeing could be an opportunity.","Governance arrangements must acknowledge the interconnections between SDGs within and between countries. Negotiations regarding trade-offs must be transparent and cast a wide view over potential issues to consider. It has been suggested that policy-making can benefit from beginning with a specific goal in line with an agency’s mandate, and identifying interactions with other goals and mandates using a evaluation scoring system ",,,,Strong,,"In order to capitalize on the opportunities stimulated by discussion of tradeoffs, the science community must take care to identify and address tradeoffs in advance of SDG implementation efforts. A useful way to navigate trade-offs could be through ‘nexus thinking’. Nexus approaches have been used to develop pathways towards greater integration and to realise synergies in issues relating to water, food and energy production. However, not yet clear how a nexus approach might be applied at different scales and levels across space and time.",,"The paper identifies 3 particular governance challenges central to implementing the SDGs: (i) cultivating collective action by creating inclusive decision spaces for stakeholder interaction across multiple sectors and scales; (ii) making difficult trade-offs, focusing on equity, justice and fairness; and (iii) ensuring mechanisms exist to hold societal actors to account regarding decision-making, investment, action, and outcomes. These 3 areas are particularly important because they reflect integrative governance capabilities needed to make progress beyond business-as-usual approaches. ",92
1189,"Bowen, K. J., et al.",2017,"Implementing the “Sustainable Development Goals”: towards addressing three key governance challenges— collective action, trade-offs, and accountability",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Goal 7 calls for “access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all”. This involves many different actors (e.g. multiple agencies and levels of government, business, communities, research, financing), each with different interests, aims and stakes in this goal. Similarly, ‘affordable’ and ‘reliable’ have different meanings and implications for different communities around the world. Energy choices are as much a function of policy, politics and environmental conditions as they are of technical capacity. The politics of collective action become evident as implementing Goal 7 will likely require a concurrent shift away from greenhouse gas-intensive fossil fuels to meet Goal 13 on climate change. The nature of energy transitions will also vary between developed and devel- oping nations [32] and across industrial sectors [33], raising equity concerns over historical emissions pathways, resultant environmental, economic, social and health impacts and vulnerabilities, and responsibilities among actors [34]. Politically contested collective action issues are likely to be endemic to all the SDGs, especially when the interests of incumbent actors are challenged. On the other hand, concerns about equity, justice, and fairness should compel particular emphasis on including poor and marginalized groups, who are typically without voice to influence political economic decisions affecting their own lives, in collective decision-making processes ","Ensuring that governance systems are up to the task of implementing the SDGs is therefore fundamental to achieving transformative change for sustainability. Governance failures may not necessarily indicate that the SDGs cannot be implemen- ted, but means of addressing potential failures need to be considered as integral to the implementation process.",,,,Strong,,"Ambitious thinking is needed to develop formal institutional structures for policy integration and to identify ways of bridging current gaps. Start bridging these gaps can be done by approaches such as: (i) supporting secondments across ministries, sectors and types of organisations [42]; (ii) facilitating short-term training opportunities on cross-sectoral issues (such as food and water security); and (iii) providing time and financial opportunities for genuine co-production of research and policy initiatives (e.g. [43]).",7 -> 13,"The paper identifies 3 particular governance challenges central to implementing the SDGs: (i) cultivating collective action by creating inclusive decision spaces for stakeholder interaction across multiple sectors and scales; (ii) making difficult trade-offs, focusing on equity, justice and fairness; and (iii) ensuring mechanisms exist to hold societal actors to account regarding decision-making, investment, action, and outcomes. These 3 areas are particularly important because they reflect integrative governance capabilities needed to make progress beyond business-as-usual approaches.   Under SDG 17 it is particularly target 17.16",91
1190,"Bowen, K. J., et al.",2017,"Implementing the “Sustainable Development Goals”: towards addressing three key governance challenges— collective action, trade-offs, and accountability",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,15.6,8.4,15,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"decoupling resource use and environmental impact from socio-economic development remains a fundamental global challenge. Rather than this being the basis for conflict, however, equitable distribution of resources required for human wellbeing could be an opportunity.","Governance arrangements must acknowledge the interconnections between SDGs within and between countries. Negotiations regarding trade-offs must be transparent and cast a wide view over potential issues to consider. It has been suggested that policy-making can benefit from beginning with a specific goal in line with an agency’s mandate, and identifying interactions with other goals and mandates using a evaluation scoring system ",,,,Strong,,"In order to capitalize on the opportunities stimulated by discussion of tradeoffs, the science community must take care to identify and address tradeoffs in advance of SDG implementation efforts. A useful way to navigate trade-offs could be through ‘nexus thinking’. Nexus approaches have been used to develop pathways towards greater integration and to realise synergies in issues relating to water, food and energy production. However, not yet clear how a nexus approach might be applied at different scales and levels across space and time.",,"The paper identifies 3 particular governance challenges central to implementing the SDGs: (i) cultivating collective action by creating inclusive decision spaces for stakeholder interaction across multiple sectors and scales; (ii) making difficult trade-offs, focusing on equity, justice and fairness; and (iii) ensuring mechanisms exist to hold societal actors to account regarding decision-making, investment, action, and outcomes. These 3 areas are particularly important because they reflect integrative governance capabilities needed to make progress beyond business-as-usual approaches. ",92
1191,"Chi Thanh Vu, Chitsan Lin, Gavin Yeh, Maria Ching Villanueva",2016,Bioaccumulation and potential sources of heavy metal contamination in fish species in Taiwan: assessment and possible human health implications,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.3,3.9,6,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Heavy metal contamination in a number of water bodies... pose a direct threat to humans who ingest these heavy metals, especially in regions where seafood is favored by the local population... Despite human nutritional gains from fish consumption, evaluating levels of toxic contaminants in fish is important due to potential health risks both to the fish itself and to higher trophic level organisms such as humans that potentially consume them",,,,,,High hazard and carcinogenic risk related to the Houjing River’s fish was proven based on target hazard quotient (THQ) and target cancer risk (TR) estimations,,,,19422-19423
1192,"Chi Thanh Vu, Chitsan Lin, Gavin Yeh, Maria Ching Villanueva",2016,Bioaccumulation and potential sources of heavy metal contamination in fish species in Taiwan: assessment and possible human health implications,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.1,3.9,14,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Heavy metal contamination in a number of water bodies... pose a direct threat to humans who ingest these heavy metals, especially in regions where seafood is favored by the local population... Despite human nutritional gains from fish consumption, evaluating levels of toxic contaminants in fish is important due to potential health risks both to the fish itself and to higher trophic level organisms such as humans that potentially consume them",,,,,,High hazard and carcinogenic risk related to the Houjing River’s fish was proven based on target hazard quotient (THQ) and target cancer risk (TR) estimations,,,,19422-19423
1193,"Chowdhury, G., and K. Kushwanth",2017,Information Practices for Sustainability: Role of iSchools in Achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,4,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Data-driven research and decision making, and a culture of data sharing and reuse, can be promoted through education and training in sustainable data and information practices. Such skills may be imparted by iSchools to all university students in every discipline. Data sharing and reuse can be facilitated by making data publicly accessible through open access mandates, and by developing and advocating appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks and protocols. iSchools can play a key role in all of these areas, and develop and deliver different data and information management programs, and also create awareness among university students, and the general public, through special training programs, workshops, and engagement activities.","various policy documents created by the UN and other agencies have clearly pointed out the importance of creation, management, and sharing of quality data and information for achieving the SDGs","many information science schools, and more specifically those that are in the developing and least-developed countries, suffer from adequate staff expertise and resources required for producing the manpower that are appropriately trained for the creation, gathering, accessing, and sharing of large and diverse data sets that are required for achieving the SDGs. iSchools, being a global organization, whose mission is to promote the use of information through appropriate technologies, can play a key role here by sharing the relevant expertise and resources for supporting teaching and research in iSchools. Overall, more cooperation, collaboration, and knowledge exchange activities are needed among iSchools in order to provide better support for information education and research in the developing and least-developed countries in support of SDGs.",,,Strong,"A search on the website of iSchools reveals that only in 13 out of 77 iSchools there is a module related to sustainability of information. However, often sustainability is covered as part of a more generic module on computing or environment or information science, rather than sustainability of information per se.","paper mentions 4 key areas of teaching and research that can promote sustainability from perspective of information science and iSchools: 1. Sustainable information systems and infrastructure; 2. Sustainable information practices; 3. Sustainable information policies and governance; 4. Sustainable user education, training, literacy",4 and 17 are affecting all other SDGs,"paper argues that iSchools can have a key role in helping people, institutions and businesses and therefore countires achieve SDGs  iSchools: aim to connect people, institutions, businesses, and society with data using appropriate ICT and a range of other technologies, tools, and policies, so that appropriate meaning or sense of the data can be made or inferred by people and thereby generating information that can be used in a specific context for learning, problem solving, decision making, healthy living, research & development, and so on.  Under SDG 4 it is partly target 4.7; under SDG 17 it is mainly target 17.6 and also 17.8",2134
1194,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,2.1,1,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had independent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1195,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,3.3,1,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had independent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1196,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,3.4,1,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had independent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1197,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,3.5,1,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had independent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1198,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,4.1,1,4,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had independent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1199,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,5.2,1,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had independent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1200,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,5.6,1,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had independent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1201,"Cluver, L.D., et al.",2016,Can Social Protection Improve Sustainable Development Goals for Adolescent Health?,Academic-peer reviewed,South Africa (in 2 provinces),Sub-national,,Interaction impact develops in real time,1.3,16.1,1,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"This study examines the contribution of social protection provision, a core policy target of the SDGs, on indicators across five SDG goals, amongst deprived South African adolescents. Findings show a remarkable range of associations with improved SDG outcomes. In 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated indicators cash and/or care were associated with significant reductions in adolescent health-related risks. These positive associations spanned all five goals for whichmeasures were available: hunger (SDG 2), health (SDG 3), education (SDG 4), gender equality (SDG 5) and peaceful societies (SDG 16). Thus, social protection seems to positively impact multiple domains of adolescent health and wellbeing.","This study also provides evidence on components and combinations of social protection. Cash support had independent risk reduction effects for ten SDG indicators, and care support had  ndependent risk reduction effects for eight SDG indicators. However, for many SDG health-related targets, strong additive effectswere shown of combining cash plus care: with cumulative risk reduction effects shown on six SDG indicators. Overall, combination social protectionmay be an effectiveway to maximise health and wellbeing benefits for high-risk adolescents","In the course of checking for possible interaction effects, it emerged that the effect of care provision may bemodified by adolescents’ level of poverty. As patterns of effect differ by gender, social protectionmay also require a gendered understanding to inform and target combinations of interventions. More research needed. ",,,Strong,"Among boys, substance use incidence in the past year was 13.6% without cash and care provision, 8.7% with cash provision, 5.4% with care, and 3.3% with cash plus care. For violence perpetration, incidence was 20.1% without cash and care provision, 14.4% with cash provision, 12.9% with care alone, and 9.0% with cash plus care,. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 23% without cash and care, 17.5% with cash alone, 14.7% with care alone, and 10.6% with cash plus care.  Among girls, substance use incidence in the past year was 10.5% without cash or care provision, 5.1% with cash provision, 3.6% with care, and 1.7% with cash plus care. For HIV-risk behaviour, incidence was 14.5% without cash and care, 10.1% with cash provision, 9.7% with care, and 6.7% with cash plus care. For sexual exploitation, incidence was 14.3%, without cash or care, 10.9% with cash provision, 10.3% with care and 7.7% with cash plus care.",,,"findings suggest that national social protection systems - though not a panacea - have multiple and synergistic positive associations with adolescent health outcomes and therefore may help us rise to the challenges of health and sustainable development.  Social protection was associated with significant adolescent risk reductions in 12 of 17 gender-disaggregated SDG indicators, spanning SDG 2 (hunger); SDG 3 (AIDS, tuberculosis, mental health and substance abuse); SDG 4 (educational access); SDG 5 (sexual exploitation, sexual and reproductive health); and SDG 16 (violence perpetration). For six of 17 indicators, combined cash plus care showed enhanced risk reduction effects. Two interactions showed that effects of care varied by poverty level for boys' hunger and girls' school dropout. For tuberculosis, and for boys' sexual exploitation and girls' mental health and violence perpetration, no effects were found and more targeted or creative means will be needed to reach adolescents on these challenging burdens.  Study: Between 2009–2012, the government extended the receipt of child-focused cash transfers to adolescents from an age-limit of 12 to 18. Additionally, roll-out of free schooling and school meals was underway for highest-deprivation districts. Simultaneously, international organisations were expanding provision of psychosocial ‘care’ support to adolescents, through NGO and parenting support. During this period, access and take-up of all of these interventions was uneven, as typifies large-scale programming and family-based care in any resource-constrained context. This uneven scale-up of both ‘cash’ and ‘care’ social protection allowed rigorous testing of associations with health outcomes in a real-world African context. Given that ‘natural experiments’ are quasi-experimental rather than randomised designs, it is also desirable to check whether social protection effects are modified by interactions with each other or with any socio-demographic factors that also predict adolescent health outcomes. This study thus has three aims: 1) to test associations of social protection and indicators for health-relevant targets of five SDG goals, amongst highly deprived African adolescent boys and girls; 2) to test for potential interactions between social protection and socio-demographic copredictors of adolescent health; 3) to test where ‘cash’ and/or ‘care’ forms of social protection are effective, or where combined ‘cash plus care’ can provide additive benefits.   Study only examined indicators in five of the SDG goals, focusing on those that were most directly relevant to adolescent health - other SDGs e.g. 6, 8, 1 or 10 were not considered.",12
1202,"Cooke, S.J., et al.",2016,On the sustainability of inland fisheries: Finding a future for the forgotten,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"inland fisheries are related to nearly all SDGs and sustainable management of inland fisheries could be an effective method for countries with inland fisheries to advance on multiple SDGS simultaneously. In that context, the SDGs could provide the integrative, holistic framework needed for the sustainable management of inland fisheries. These recommendations are timely given the FAO Blue Growth Initiative which recognizes the value of fish to livelihoods and food security. Through these approaches, inland fisheries can be better evaluated and be more fully recognized in broader water resource and aquatic ecosystem planning and decision-making frameworks, enhancing their value and sustainability for the future.",see column 21,,,,Strong,"Developing countries in Africa and Asia produce about 11 million tonnes of inland fish annually, 90 % of the global total. The role of inland fisheries goes beyond just kilocalories; fish provide important micronutrients and essentially fatty acids. In some regions, inland recreational fisheries are important, generating much wealth and supporting livelihoods.  In the developing world inland fisheries support livelihoods for 60 million people and food for hundreds of millions more. Additionally, freshwater recreational fishers globally contribute some $70 billion to the global GDP. It is time to acknowledge the full value of inland fisheries, especially in the context of food security, human health, livelihoods, and tourism, and ensure their future sustainable management, particularly in the face of competing uses of freshwater (e.g., irrigation, hydropower, domestic and industrial use, and waste disposal). Moreover, freshwaters are subject to threats arising from extensive habitat alteration, fragmentation (i.e., dams), and invasive species, that are negatively affecting freshwater biodiversity. Other than in  the marine realm, the threats to inland fisheries are largely external. The loss of biodiversity in freshwater is believed to exceed that observed in both terrestrial and marine environments.  see also Box1 on page 756","three key recommendations are necessary for action if inland fisheries are to become a part of the foodwater-energy discussion: invest in improved valuation and assessment methods, build better methods to effectively govern inland fisheries (requires capacity building and incentives), and develop approaches to managing waters across sectors and scales. Moreover, if inland fisheries are recognized as important to food security, livelihoods, and human well-being, they can be more easily incorporated in regional, national, and global policies and agreements on water issues. Through these approaches, inland fisheries can be better evaluated and be more fully recognized in broader water resource and aquatic ecosystem planning and decision-making frameworks, enhancing their value and sustainability for the future.",,"undervalued, largely paper highlights that even though inland fisheries are overlooked, and often threatened in both developing and developed countries, they - if well-managed - are important for food security, livelihoods, and human well-being.  Under SDG 6 it is mainly targets 6.5 and 6.6",760
1203,"Cooke, S.J., et al.",2016,On the sustainability of inland fisheries: Finding a future for the forgotten,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"inland fisheries are related to nearly all SDGs and sustainable management of inland fisheries could be an effective method for countries with inland fisheries to advance on multiple SDGS simultaneously. In that context, the SDGs could provide the integrative, holistic framework needed for the sustainable management of inland fisheries. These recommendations are timely given the FAO Blue Growth Initiative which recognizes the value of fish to livelihoods and food security. Through these approaches, inland fisheries can be better evaluated and be more fully recognized in broader water resource and aquatic ecosystem planning and decision-making frameworks, enhancing their value and sustainability for the future.",see column 21,,,,Strong,"Developing countries in Africa and Asia produce about 11 million tonnes of inland fish annually, 90 % of the global total. The role of inland fisheries goes beyond just kilocalories; fish provide important micronutrients and essentially fatty acids. In some regions, inland recreational fisheries are important, generating much wealth and supporting livelihoods.  In the developing world inland fisheries support livelihoods for 60 million people and food for hundreds of millions more. Additionally, freshwater recreational fishers globally contribute some $70 billion to the global GDP. It is time to acknowledge the full value of inland fisheries, especially in the context of food security, human health, livelihoods, and tourism, and ensure their future sustainable management, particularly in the face of competing uses of freshwater (e.g., irrigation, hydropower, domestic and industrial use, and waste disposal). Moreover, freshwaters are subject to threats arising from extensive habitat alteration, fragmentation (i.e., dams), and invasive species, that are negatively affecting freshwater biodiversity. Other than in  the marine realm, the threats to inland fisheries are largely external. The loss of biodiversity in freshwater is believed to exceed that observed in both terrestrial and marine environments.  see also Box1 on page 756","three key recommendations are necessary for action if inland fisheries are to become a part of the foodwater-energy discussion: invest in improved valuation and assessment methods, build better methods to effectively govern inland fisheries (requires capacity building and incentives), and develop approaches to managing waters across sectors and scales. Moreover, if inland fisheries are recognized as important to food security, livelihoods, and human well-being, they can be more easily incorporated in regional, national, and global policies and agreements on water issues. Through these approaches, inland fisheries can be better evaluated and be more fully recognized in broader water resource and aquatic ecosystem planning and decision-making frameworks, enhancing their value and sustainability for the future.",,"undervalued, largely paper highlights that even though inland fisheries are overlooked, and often threatened in both developing and developed countries, they - if well-managed - are important for food security, livelihoods, and human well-being.  Under SDG 6 it is mainly targets 6.5 and 6.6",760
1204,"Cooke, S.J., et al.",2016,On the sustainability of inland fisheries: Finding a future for the forgotten,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"It is time to acknowledge the full value of inland fisheries, especially in the context of food security, human health, livelihoods, and tourism",see column 21,,,,Strong,"Developing countries in Africa and Asia produce about 11 million tonnes of inland fish annually, 90 % of the global total. The role of inland fisheries goes beyond just kilocalories; fish provide important micronutrients and essentially fatty acids. In some regions, inland recreational fisheries are important, generating much wealth and supporting livelihoods.  In the developing world inland fisheries support livelihoods for 60 million people and food for hundreds of millions more. Additionally, freshwater recreational fishers globally contribute some $70 billion to the global GDP. It is time to acknowledge the full value of inland fisheries, especially in the context of food security, human health, livelihoods, and tourism, and ensure their future sustainable management, particularly in the face of competing uses of freshwater (e.g., irrigation, hydropower, domestic and industrial use, and waste disposal). Moreover, freshwaters are subject to threats arising from extensive habitat alteration, fragmentation (i.e., dams), and invasive species, that are negatively affecting freshwater biodiversity. Other than in  the marine realm, the threats to inland fisheries are largely external. The loss of biodiversity in freshwater is believed to exceed that observed in both terrestrial and marine environments.  see also Box1 on page 756","three key recommendations are necessary for action if inland fisheries are to become a part of the foodwater-energy discussion: invest in improved valuation and assessment methods, build better methods to effectively govern inland fisheries (requires capacity building and incentives), and develop approaches to managing waters across sectors and scales. Moreover, if inland fisheries are recognized as important to food security, livelihoods, and human well-being, they can be more easily incorporated in regional, national, and global policies and agreements on water issues. Through these approaches, inland fisheries can be better evaluated and be more fully recognized in broader water resource and aquatic ecosystem planning and decision-making frameworks, enhancing their value and sustainability for the future.",,"undervalued, largely paper highlights that even though inland fisheries are overlooked, and often threatened in both developing and developed countries, they - if well-managed - are important for food security, livelihoods, and human well-being.  Under SDG 6 it is mainly targets 6.5 and 6.6",760
1205,"Cooke, S.J., et al.",2016,On the sustainability of inland fisheries: Finding a future for the forgotten,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"It is time to acknowledge the full value of inland fisheries, especially in the context of food security, human health, livelihoods, and tourism",see column 21,,,,Strong,"Developing countries in Africa and Asia produce about 11 million tonnes of inland fish annually, 90 % of the global total. The role of inland fisheries goes beyond just kilocalories; fish provide important micronutrients and essentially fatty acids. In some regions, inland recreational fisheries are important, generating much wealth and supporting livelihoods.  In the developing world inland fisheries support livelihoods for 60 million people and food for hundreds of millions more. Additionally, freshwater recreational fishers globally contribute some $70 billion to the global GDP. It is time to acknowledge the full value of inland fisheries, especially in the context of food security, human health, livelihoods, and tourism, and ensure their future sustainable management, particularly in the face of competing uses of freshwater (e.g., irrigation, hydropower, domestic and industrial use, and waste disposal). Moreover, freshwaters are subject to threats arising from extensive habitat alteration, fragmentation (i.e., dams), and invasive species, that are negatively affecting freshwater biodiversity. Other than in  the marine realm, the threats to inland fisheries are largely external. The loss of biodiversity in freshwater is believed to exceed that observed in both terrestrial and marine environments.  see also Box1 on page 756","three key recommendations are necessary for action if inland fisheries are to become a part of the foodwater-energy discussion: invest in improved valuation and assessment methods, build better methods to effectively govern inland fisheries (requires capacity building and incentives), and develop approaches to managing waters across sectors and scales. Moreover, if inland fisheries are recognized as important to food security, livelihoods, and human well-being, they can be more easily incorporated in regional, national, and global policies and agreements on water issues. Through these approaches, inland fisheries can be better evaluated and be more fully recognized in broader water resource and aquatic ecosystem planning and decision-making frameworks, enhancing their value and sustainability for the future.",,"undervalued, largely paper highlights that even though inland fisheries are overlooked, and often threatened in both developing and developed countries, they - if well-managed - are important for food security, livelihoods, and human well-being.  Under SDG 6 it is mainly targets 6.5 and 6.6  Under SDG 8 it is mainly target 8.9",760
