,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
1407,"Guijun, L., et al.",2017,A Multi-Agent Model for Urban Water-Energy-Food Sustainable Development Simulation,Academic-peer reviewed,urban areas in China,Sub-national,,,,,17,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The rapid development of urbanization in China has caused a string of problems such as population congestion, resource shortages and environmental degradation. Therefore, the city needs to seek a sustainable development pattern to save resources for its future development. As the basic elements for human survival and urban development, the supply and consumption of water, energy and food become the top priority, and they also have numerous interconnections in the process of production, consumption and management which could be called WEF-Nexus",,,,,Medium,,,2 -> 6 2 -> 7 6 -> 2 6 -> 7 7 -> 2 7 -> 6,"This paper introduces the Multi-Agent Modeling (ABM), simulates and analyzes the complex systems of WEF's allocation and flow in the city. By subdividing the urban system into different types of agents, household, firm and government, we discuss the relationship pattern and micro rules of various kinds of agents in WEF production and consumption, and then establish the Netlogo simulation model of urban consumption. Based on the interaction between social environment and multi-intelligent system, this model forms the simulation of WEF consumption distribution in the city, and simulates the interaction of various agents with the evolution of time, which facilitates research on the relationship between individual behavior at the micro level and macro model.",5
1408,"Guijun, L., et al.",2017,A Multi-Agent Model for Urban Water-Energy-Food Sustainable Development Simulation,Academic-peer reviewed,urban areas in China,Sub-national,,,,,17,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The rapid development of urbanization in China has caused a string of problems such as population congestion, resource shortages and environmental degradation. Therefore, the city needs to seek a sustainable development pattern to save resources for its future development. As the basic elements for human survival and urban development, the supply and consumption of water, energy and food become the top priority, and they also have numerous interconnections in the process of production, consumption and management which could be called WEF-Nexus",,,,,Medium,,,2 -> 6 2 -> 7 6 -> 2 6 -> 7 7 -> 2 7 -> 6,"This paper introduces the Multi-Agent Modeling (ABM), simulates and analyzes the complex systems of WEF's allocation and flow in the city. By subdividing the urban system into different types of agents, household, firm and government, we discuss the relationship pattern and micro rules of various kinds of agents in WEF production and consumption, and then establish the Netlogo simulation model of urban consumption. Based on the interaction between social environment and multi-intelligent system, this model forms the simulation of WEF consumption distribution in the city, and simulates the interaction of various agents with the evolution of time, which facilitates research on the relationship between individual behavior at the micro level and macro model.",5
1409,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,11.6,13,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Today, more than half of the world’s population lives in cities and 88% of cities worldwide fail to achieve the WHO guideline levels for air pollution. SLCP measures can directly contribute to target 11.6 to reduce the adverse environmental impact of cities by significantly reducing urban air pollution, improving public health, saving lives (Goal 3), and encouraging municipal waste management","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,"Today, more than half of the world’s population lives in cities and 88% of cities worldwide fail to achieve the WHO guideline levels for air pollution.",,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,867
1410,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,13.1,13,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Mitigation of SLCPs can significantly reduce the rate of warming and protect against the increasing impacts of climate change during the near-term period relevant to the post-2015 development agenda5. Mitigation of SLCPs could help avoid 0.6 °C temperature rise by 2050 (refs 5,6) and can cut the rate of global warming in half over this period4,5. Significant mitigation of CO2 is crucial to avoid later warming and decarbonization of the world economy is needed during this century: SLCP measures must be additional to, rather than a substitute for, decarbonization.","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,868
1411,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.2,15.2,13,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,SLCP measures such as clean cooking and heating stoves can support target 15.2 on sustainable management of forests and halting deforestation by reducing or eliminating domestic solid fuel use,"As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,868
1412,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,13.1,13,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Mitigation of SLCPs can significantly reduce the rate of warming and protect against the increasing impacts of climate change during the near-term period relevant to the post-2015 development agenda5. Mitigation of SLCPs could help avoid 0.6 °C temperature rise by 2050 (refs 5,6) and can cut the rate of global warming in half over this period4,5. Significant mitigation of CO2 is crucial to avoid later warming and decarbonization of the world economy is needed during this century: SLCP measures must be additional to, rather than a substitute for, decarbonization.","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,868
1413,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,13.3,15.2,13,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,SLCP measures such as clean cooking and heating stoves can support target 15.2 on sustainable management of forests and halting deforestation by reducing or eliminating domestic solid fuel use,"As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,868
1414,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"By 2030, SLCP mitigation can avoid the loss of over 50 million tonnes of four staple crops annually—maize, rice, soybean and wheat—from exposure to ground-level ozone concentrations. Ozone is the major cause of crop yield loss from air pollution, and could reduce global yields of these four staple crops by 3–16%. ","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","Thus, SLCP measures contribute to target 2.3, which aims to double agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers. Ground-level ozone can also alter the nutritional value of some plants and vegetables14,15, impacting targets 2.1 and 2.2, which aim to end hunger and malnutrition. For example, decreased pasture quality in terms of the metabolizable energy content of the vegetation can lead to a potential total reduction in lamb production. In the UK this could amount to approximately a 4% reduction in 2020 compared to 2007 (ref. 14), resulting in reduced income generation (Goal 1). Improvements in refrigeration energy efficiency through HFC measures can also contribute to targets 2.1 and 2.2 by increasing the affordability of refrigeration and reducing food waste (target 12.3). Furthermore, measures such as intermittent aeration of continuously flooded rice paddies, farm-scale anaerobic digestion of manure from cattle and pigs, and banning of open-field burning of agricultural waste, can contribute to target 2.4 by improving sustainable agricultural production16. Finally, climate change is projected to adversely impact crop yields, particularly in low latitude regions through changes in temperature and rainfall patterns17. SLCP strategies lead to higher crop yields through reduced ozone concentrations and warming (Goal 13), and SLCP measures appear to offer greater potential benefits compared with CO2 reduction during the next several decades4,17. These SLCP measures, however, do not serve as an effective alternative to CO2 reduction for mitigating climate change and its impacts over the longer term, where cumulative CO2 emissions are the most important factor.",,,Strong,"By 2030, SLCP mitigation can avoid the loss of over 50 million tonnes of four staple crops annually—maize, rice, soybean and wheat—from exposure to ground-level ozone concentrations. Ozone is the major cause of crop yield loss from air pollution, and could reduce global yields of these four staple crops by 3–16%. ",,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,863
1415,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Outdoor (ambient) and household fine particulate matter (PM2.5) air pollution is a major source of ill-health globally and is estimated to be responsible for 5.5–7 million premature deaths annually caused by strokes, heart disease, lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and acute lower respiratory infections (ALRI)18–20. SLCP measures such as reducing diesel engine emissions, and increasing use of clean public transport, together with active travel (walking and cycling), can directly and indirectly improve public health by reducing outdoor air pollution exposure and increasing physical activity. ","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","SLCP measures can contribute directly to achieving target 3.9 to reduce the numbers of deaths from pollution by preventing around 2.4 million deaths related to outdoor air pollution annually by 2030. Millions of additional lives can potentially be saved by reducing sources of household air pollution (HAP). Globally, close to 3 billion people still rely on traditional cooking and heating methods using solid biomass and fossil fuels and many millions rely on kerosene wick lamps, which are major sources of black carbon and HAP8,21. Due to their traditional household responsibilities in many cultures, women and children suffer from a higher level of exposure to HAP, in comparison to men. Approximately 60% of HAP-related deaths globally occur in women and children (Goal 5) including more than half of all pneumonia deaths in children under the age of 5 years (ref. 21). Measures to reduce HAP can thus contribute to target 3.9 and target 3.2 (ending preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age) as well as target 3.4, to reduce premature mortality from non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Finally, adopting diets that conform to WHO guidelines can reduce methane emissions, while also improving health—through reduced NCD risks (target 3.4)—largely due to increased consumption of vegetables, fruit, nuts and seeds and decreased consumption of animal products (particularly red and processed meat) in highconsuming populations22. Dietary change and reduction in food waste can also reduce emissions from CO2 and N2O.",,,Strong,"Outdoor (ambient) and household fine particulate matter (PM2.5) air pollution is a major source of ill-health globally and is estimated to be responsible for 5.5–7 million premature deaths annually caused by strokes, heart disease, lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and acute lower respiratory infections (ALRI)18–20. ",,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,866
1416,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,SLCP mitigation measures offer numerous opportunities for improving energy access,"As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","For example, the recovery and utilization of methane from coal mines, from the oil and gas sector, and landfills and wastewater treatment plants offers alternative fuels for energy generation, and contributes directly to target 7.1 on ensuring universal access to modern energy, while also contributing to resource-use efficiency (Goal 12). This will also contribute to income generation (Goal 8); one estimate suggests that about US$30 billion per year in revenue is lost worldwide due to methane leakage from oil and gas facilities. Many SLCP measures also directly contribute to target 7.3 to double global energy efficiency. Measures to modernize brick kilns, coke ovens, and introduce clean cooking and heating alternatives all improve facility and equipment efficiency. Furthermore, simultaneous transitioning to low global warming potential (GWP) refrigerants along with mechanical improvements in energy efficiency in room air conditioning could save between 340 and 790 GW of peak power load globally. Reducing energy demand will also reduce energy-related air pollution (Goal 3), and CO2 emissions (Goal 13) for a given population.",,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,867
1417,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Many SLCP measures support Goal 8 by decoupling economic growth from environmental degradation though the promotion of more efficient technologies, entrepreneurship and decent job creation","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.","For example, replacement of traditional brick kilns and coke ovens with modern facilities support target 8.2 by promoting high-efficiency technologies and practices and target 8.4 by decoupling of economic growth from environmental degradation. A recent analysis of the brick industry in India found that transitioning to modern kilns could reduce coal consumption by up to 5 million tonnes per year with concomitant reductions in air pollution (Goal 3) and CO2 emissions (Goal 13) as well as improving profitability of brick enterprizes and working conditions. HFC measures also support efficiency improvements. For example, recent case studies using low-GWP refrigerants have shown energy savings of up to 30% for refrigeration in commercial food stores33. HFC measures can also support target 8.3 by driving innovation and decent job creation. The replacement of traditional biomass cooking and heating stoves with more efficient alternatives will also improve resource efficiency and reduce deforestation (Goal 15). Cooking and heating stove projects can also support target 8.3 by creating opportunities for job creation and entrepreneurship. Finally, capturing and utilization of methane from coalmines alongside good safety practices will reduce the risk of methane-related explosions, thereby promoting safe and secure working environments (target 8.8).",,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,867
1418,"Haines, A. et al.",2017,Short-lived climate pollutant mitigation and the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,13,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Measures to reduce fugitive methane emissions from the oil and gas sector, from coal mines and farms, and municipal solid waste directly contribute to target 12.4 to achieve environmentally sound management and minimize adverse impacts on human health and the environment (Goals 2 and 3). HFC measures in the refrigeration sector can help achieve target 12.3, which aims to halve per-capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels, and can also contribute to food security (Goal 2). Municipal solid waste measures, including separation and treatment of biodegradable waste, can also support target 12.5 through prevention, reduction, recycling and re-use.","As countries seek to incorporate SDG implementation into their national policy and planning processes, it is important that multiple benefits are assessed to identify actions and strategies that can help achieve everal SDG targets, while minimizing conflicts and trade-offs. For most SLCP measures, there are synergies, often between many different SDGs and their targets. SLCP mitigation is complementary to CO2 mitigation; many SLCP mitigation strategies can yield CO2 mitigation co-benefits and vice versa. The significant role that SLCP mitigation can play in achieving multiple SDGs suggests a need to develop nationally relevant SLCP-specific indicators. SLCP mitigation could also be a thematic area of focus in SDG implementation to mobilize stakeholders and resources for action. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (CCAC) is a partnership among countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, with a secretariat in United Nations Environment (UNEP), which has the goal of catalyzing action towards the reduction of SLCPs. The CCAC can provide guidance and institutional support both for developing national-level indicators and for implementing identified strategies through its 7 sectoral and 4 crosscutting initiatives.",s. also table 1 p. 864-866,,,Strong,,,,The paper highlights that implementing SLCP mitigation measures can contribute to the achievement of multiple SDG targets. ,868
1419,"Hajer, M. et al.",2015,Beyond Cockpit-ism: Four Insights to Enhance the Transformative Potential of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.17,17.16,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Recognizing the constraints of cockpit-ism, we need to consciously target the SDGs to align with agents of change from business, civil society, and cities around the world. The four perspectives outlined in this article can strengthen the link between these actors and in doing so, support the universal relevance of the SDGs. ","the final goals and targets that will be adopted by the UN General Assembly in September 2015 risk falling short of expectations because of what we call “cockpit-ism”: the illusion that top-down steering by governments and intergovernmental organizations alone can address global problems. In view of the limited effectiveness of intergovernmental efforts and questions about the capacity of national governments to affect change, the SDGs need to additionally mobilize new agents of change such as businesses, cities and civil society.","In his December 2014 Synthesis Report, Secretary General Ban Ki Moon proposes multi-stakeholder peer reviews of national progress that includes contributions from non-governmental stakeholders “based upon globally-harmonized formats” [2]. This is a step in the right direction to more strongly engage new agents of change. A combination of perspectives on sustainable development can further help mobilize this broader set of actors, build partnerships and contribute to a better understanding of the synergies and tensions inherent to alternative pathways to sustainable development",,,Strong,,,,"Paper highlights that SDGs need to move beyond a focus on the cockpit, and reflect the four perspectives discussed in this paper. The SDGs need to inspire and challenge multiple agents of change including governments: “planetary boundaries” to strengthen the urgency of addressing environmental concerns, “the safe and just operating space” to highlight the interconnectedness of social and environmental concerns and its distributive consequences for industrialized countries and emerging economies, “the energetic society” to engage new agents of change to forge ahead with new, more sustainable ways of doing things, and “green competition” to initiate novel ideas and technologies and stimulate new business practices. To realize the transformative potential of the SDGs, these four perspectives should be reflected more strongly in the focus and content of the SDGs that will be negotiated in the course of 2015. Recognizing the constraints of cockpit-ism, we need to consciously target the SDGs to align with agents of change from business, civil society, and cities around the world. The four perspectives outlined  can strengthen the link between these actors and in doing so, support the universal relevance of the SDGs.",1658
1420,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,3.1,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
1421,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,3.2,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
1422,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,3.3,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
1423,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,5.1,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1424,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,5.2,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1425,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,5.3,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1426,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,5.4,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1427,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,5.5,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1428,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.1,5.6,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1429,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,3.1,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
1430,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,3.2,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Ensuring food and nutrition security directly creates conditions that lead to the reduction of maternal mortality and preventable deaths of newborns,,,,,,,,,,48
1431,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,3.3,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
1432,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,5.1,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1433,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,5.2,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1434,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,5.3,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1435,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,5.4,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1436,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,5.5,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1437,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.2,5.6,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Ensuring food and nutrition security reinforces women’s empowerment. In turn, women’s empowerment is enabling nutrition security due partly to their role in food production and preparation and their greater inclination to spend resources they control on family nutrition and health",,bidirectional interaction,,,,,,,,52
1438,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,1.1,2,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increasing small-scale food producer productivity and income reinforce the fight against poverty,,,,,,,,,,44
1439,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,1.2,2,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increasing small-scale food producer productivity and income reinforce the fight against poverty,,,,,,,,,,44
1440,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,1.3,2,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increasing small-scale food producer productivity and income reinforce the fight against poverty,,,,,,,,,,44
1441,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,1.4,2,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Equal access to land and other productive resources is directly aligned with securing equal rights to economic resources,,,,,,,,,,44
1442,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,3.1,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Increasing the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale producers will improve access to food and economic resources, which supports the health of mothers, newborns and children",Implement financial and educational policies that support smallholders to increase agricultural productivity,,,,,,,,"(Note also that the chemicals and pollution linked to conventional agriculture boosting productivity have a negative interaction on health, also affecting women and newborns see p. 48)",92
1443,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,3.2,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Increasing the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale producers will improve access to food and economic resources, which supports the health of mothers, newborns and children",Implement financial and educational policies that support smallholders to increase agricultural productivity,,,,,,,,"(Note also that the chemicals and pollution linked to conventional agriculture boosting productivity have a negative interaction on health, also affecting women and newborns see p. 48)",92
1444,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,3.3,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
1445,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.3,5.5,2,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Promoting investment in rural infrastructure, securing equal access to productive resources (including land), and increasing income strengthens women’s empowerment and gender equality",,,,,,,,,,52
1446,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,3.3,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Food and nutrition security and stable agricultural employment help reduce communicable diseases owing to better nutrition and health status and because better rural incomes help prevent the pursuit of unsafe practices leading to communicable diseases,,,,,,,,,,48
1447,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,6.6,2,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Sustainable agriculture, improving land and soil quality reinforces the protection/restoration of waterrelated ecosystems",,,,,,,,,,55
1448,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,13.1,2,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Resilient agricultural practices and maintaining and giving access to seeds/plant/animal genetic diversity should reinforce adaptation to climate change,,,,,,,,,,63
1449,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,15.1,2,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Agriculture impacts on the wellbeing of terrestrial ecosystems (sustainable food production system and agriculture practices) should reinforce the maintenance of terrestrial ecosystems and the prevention of land as well as biodiversity erosion,,,,,,,,,,67
1450,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,15.2,2,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Agriculture impacts on the wellbeing of terrestrial ecosystems (sustainable food production system and agriculture practices) should reinforce the maintenance of terrestrial ecosystems and the prevention of land as well as biodiversity erosion,,,,,,,,,,67
1451,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,15.3,2,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Agriculture impacts on the wellbeing of terrestrial ecosystems (sustainable food production system and agriculture practices) should reinforce the maintenance of terrestrial ecosystems and the prevention of land as well as biodiversity erosion,,,,,,,,,,67
1452,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.4,15.4,2,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Agriculture impacts on the wellbeing of terrestrial ecosystems (sustainable food production system and agriculture practices) should reinforce the maintenance of terrestrial ecosystems and the prevention of land as well as biodiversity erosion,,,,,,,,,,67
1453,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,2.5,13.1,2,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Resilient agricultural practices and maintaining and giving access to seeds/plant/animal genetic diversity should reinforce adaptation to climate change,,,,,,,,,,63
1454,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.1,8.1,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1455,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.1,8.5,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1456,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.1,8.6,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1457,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.2,8.1,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1458,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.2,8.5,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1459,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.2,8.6,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1460,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.3,2.3,3,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Ending communicable diseases will have a significant positive effect on the availability and health of the labour force to achieve the targets related to agricultural productivity and income growth,Invest in healthcare services,,,,,,,,,92
1461,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.3,3.2,3,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Achieving targets for noncommunicable and communicable disease will assist in reducing maternal mortality,"Reduce prevalence of noncommunicable diseases, such as diabetes and risk factors such as obesity. Eliminate smoking during pregnancy. Give particular focus to the control of infectious disease during ante-natal care and in medical environments",,,,,,,,,97
1462,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.3,8.1,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1463,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.3,8.5,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1464,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.3,8.6,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1465,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.4,3.2,3,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Achieving targets for noncommunicable and communicable disease will assist in reducing maternal mortality,"Reduce prevalence of noncommunicable diseases, such as diabetes and risk factors such as obesity. Eliminate smoking during pregnancy. Give particular focus to the control of infectious disease during ante-natal care and in medical environments",,,,,,,,,97
1466,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.4,8.1,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1467,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.4,8.5,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1468,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.4,8.6,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1469,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.5,3.3,3,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Controlling tobacco, reducing substance abuse, and reducing exposure to hazardous chemicals, will assist in reducing premature mortality associated with noncommunicable disease","Ensure regulation prevents exposure to hazardous chemicals, and controls tobacco use",,,,,,,,,97
1470,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.5,8.1,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1471,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.5,8.5,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1472,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.5,8.6,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
1473,ICSU,2017,A Guide to SDG Interactions: From Science to Implementation,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.6,8.1,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Increased health/well-being supports people to enter the workforce and contributes to economic growth and employment,Invest in healthcare and social services,,,,,,,,,101
