,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
1809,"Misra, H.",2017,Facilitating financial inclusion through E-Governance: Case based study in Indian scenario,Academic-peer reviewed,India,Sub-national,,,17.8,8.3,17,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,In India there are considerable efforts to foster financial inclusion and E-Governance. This paper seeks to explore whether these two efforts have progressed for convergence and assess the present status through a proposed framework and case based study in Indian context.,,"E-Governance for development aims at bridging the divides related to access, transaction cost, transaction time, enhancing trust through transparency, e-participation and e-inclusion etc.. It is also argued that E-Governance interventions are to ensure that enabling conditions are created for the citizens in staying connected, having access to better ecosystems for G2B, B2B, G2C, B2C, C2C services. In India, National e- Governance Plan has focused on holistic approach with convergence that SDGs profess.",,,Strong,,Further research would be needed,,,226
1810,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"achieving water, energy, and food securi- ties require feasible implementation mechanisms for each sector that also synergize with the other two sectors.","the ‘nexus’ is that intersection wherein we establish the water, energy, food trade-offs between allocations and define the hotspots for which future interventions must be made. The interventions depend upon the sector and the hotspot of concern, whether geographic, temporal, or thematic. The lesson learned from nexus studies to date is that there is always a local aspect to be considered: while the underlying foundation of the processes and interlinkages between resource systems may be similar, the specific solutions will be local and will address specific challenges, at a specific scale, and defined by specific constraints, stakeholders, and goals.  governments also have a major role to play: improving policy coherence across sectors and scales, ensuring that incentives created for one sector are not resulting in competition or negative implications on others.",,,,Strong,,,,,85
1811,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"achieving water, energy, and food securi- ties require feasible implementation mechanisms for each sector that also synergize with the other two sectors.","the ‘nexus’ is that intersection wherein we establish the water, energy, food trade-offs between allocations and define the hotspots for which future interventions must be made. The interventions depend upon the sector and the hotspot of concern, whether geographic, temporal, or thematic. The lesson learned from nexus studies to date is that there is always a local aspect to be considered: while the underlying foundation of the processes and interlinkages between resource systems may be similar, the specific solutions will be local and will address specific challenges, at a specific scale, and defined by specific constraints, stakeholders, and goals.  governments also have a major role to play: improving policy coherence across sectors and scales, ensuring that incentives created for one sector are not resulting in competition or negative implications on others.",,,,Strong,,"are there spaces in which the next generation of biofuels can reduce the dependency of the current biofuel model on water? This dependency has contributed in 2008 to a hike in food cost and food insecurities in some parts of the world. How can we reduce the energy footprint for food production, processing and transport that improves the food cost and increases resilience of the food system? Off the grid solar power offers a path toward this goal and allows farming off the grid remote areas. How do we achieve full recovery of energy from biomass that improves energy security and offers power to waste and recycling?",,,85
1812,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"achieving water, energy, and food securi- ties require feasible implementation mechanisms for each sector that also synergize with the other two sectors.","the ‘nexus’ is that intersection wherein we establish the water, energy, food trade-offs between allocations and define the hotspots for which future interventions must be made. The interventions depend upon the sector and the hotspot of concern, whether geographic, temporal, or thematic. The lesson learned from nexus studies to date is that there is always a local aspect to be considered: while the underlying foundation of the processes and interlinkages between resource systems may be similar, the specific solutions will be local and will address specific challenges, at a specific scale, and defined by specific constraints, stakeholders, and goals.  governments also have a major role to play: improving policy coherence across sectors and scales, ensuring that incentives created for one sector are not resulting in competition or negative implications on others.",,,,Strong,,,,,85
1813,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"achieving water, energy, and food securi- ties require feasible implementation mechanisms for each sector that also synergize with the other two sectors.","the ‘nexus’ is that intersection wherein we establish the water, energy, food trade-offs between allocations and define the hotspots for which future interventions must be made. The interventions depend upon the sector and the hotspot of concern, whether geographic, temporal, or thematic. The lesson learned from nexus studies to date is that there is always a local aspect to be considered: while the underlying foundation of the processes and interlinkages between resource systems may be similar, the specific solutions will be local and will address specific challenges, at a specific scale, and defined by specific constraints, stakeholders, and goals.  governments also have a major role to play: improving policy coherence across sectors and scales, ensuring that incentives created for one sector are not resulting in competition or negative implications on others.",,,,Strong,,"are there economically feasible waterless energy production systems, that have not been explored, that reduce energy production’s dependency on water, that is, though air cooling, non-hydraulic shale gas production, full recovery of reused (produced) water in the energy sector? This would reduce the dependency of energy on water, and would allow water to serve other sectors such as agriculture and growing urban water demands. Or can we reduce the dependency of energy on water production? Today, the transport of water requires extensive amounts of energy: how can this energy be reduced in a manner that reduces dependency on energy and increases water system resilience and cost? This may require innovations in conservation practices and technologies to localize water supply sys- tems and increase reuse and recycling. ",,,85
1814,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The 2016 World Water Week, with the theme ‘Water for Sustainable Growth’... highlights the extent to which SDGs 6 and 8, water and economic growth, are tightly interconnected and central to the success of other goals",,"As economies and populations grow, so do the assets, economic activities, populations and the water-related risks faced. These risks include service disruptions, drought, floods, declining water quality (contamination), and increased pressure on water resources. Planning investments for a more sustainable future, accounting for the interlinkages between water and growth are imperative. Water is a key element for the growth of civiliza- tions throughout history: an instrumental resource for both agricultural and industrial sectors, water is critical to maintain the livelihood of communities. 3 out of 4 natural disasters in the world are water related: the annual price tag associated with flood damage to property is estimated at US$120 billion, while the annual cost of inaction is estimated to be nearly US$ 500 billion. Improved water management brings the potential of reduced loss or damage while building resilience in the face of water related natural disasters. Good water management underpins economic growth, enhances productivity and increases trade. Investment in information, infrastructure, and institutions, is a precursor to sustainable growth. Growth provides critical resources and incentives for achieving water security, mitigating water related risks, offering opportunities for investing in sustainable water resources management. There are numerous examples of the negative impacts of growth on water resources. Development pathways should factor in water security to avoid future liabilities at higher cost.",,,Strong,,"Holistic approach is needed for implementation of the SDGs. The challenge will be to ensure that economies grow sustainably without jeopardizing water security, which in turn play a role in continued growth. Understanding the trade-offs associated with different growth pathways will play a critical role in avoiding those challenges of sustainability. Moreover, water issues cross scales and are variably interconnected with different economic sectors: hence, the sustainable use of this precious resource requires local solutions. Long-term infrastructural investments must likewise be interconnected, combining investment in water infrastructure, institutions and information (data). Stakeholder involvement is needed to guide joint management of water and other resources for economic growth. ",,,84
1815,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"achieving water, energy, and food securi- ties require feasible implementation mechanisms for each sector that also synergize with the other two sectors.","the ‘nexus’ is that intersection wherein we establish the water, energy, food trade-offs between allocations and define the hotspots for which future interventions must be made. The interventions depend upon the sector and the hotspot of concern, whether geographic, temporal, or thematic. The lesson learned from nexus studies to date is that there is always a local aspect to be considered: while the underlying foundation of the processes and interlinkages between resource systems may be similar, the specific solutions will be local and will address specific challenges, at a specific scale, and defined by specific constraints, stakeholders, and goals.  governments also have a major role to play: improving policy coherence across sectors and scales, ensuring that incentives created for one sector are not resulting in competition or negative implications on others.",,,,Strong,,"are there spaces in which the next generation of biofuels can reduce the dependency of the current biofuel model on water? This dependency has contributed in 2008 to a hike in food cost and food insecurities in some parts of the world. How can we reduce the energy footprint for food production, processing and transport that improves the food cost and increases resilience of the food system? Off the grid solar power offers a path toward this goal and allows farming off the grid remote areas. How do we achieve full recovery of energy from biomass that improves energy security and offers power to waste and recycling?",,,85
1816,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"achieving water, energy, and food securi- ties require feasible implementation mechanisms for each sector that also synergize with the other two sectors.","the ‘nexus’ is that intersection wherein we establish the water, energy, food trade-offs between allocations and define the hotspots for which future interventions must be made. The interventions depend upon the sector and the hotspot of concern, whether geographic, temporal, or thematic. The lesson learned from nexus studies to date is that there is always a local aspect to be considered: while the underlying foundation of the processes and interlinkages between resource systems may be similar, the specific solutions will be local and will address specific challenges, at a specific scale, and defined by specific constraints, stakeholders, and goals.  governments also have a major role to play: improving policy coherence across sectors and scales, ensuring that incentives created for one sector are not resulting in competition or negative implications on others.",,,,Strong,,"are there economically feasible waterless energy production systems, that have not been explored, that reduce energy production’s dependency on water, that is, though air cooling, non-hydraulic shale gas production, full recovery of reused (produced) water in the energy sector? This would reduce the dependency of energy on water, and would allow water to serve other sectors such as agriculture and growing urban water demands. Or can we reduce the dependency of energy on water production? Today, the transport of water requires extensive amounts of energy: how can this energy be reduced in a manner that reduces dependency on energy and increases water system resilience and cost? This may require innovations in conservation practices and technologies to localize water supply sys- tems and increase reuse and recycling. ",,,85
1817,"Mohtar, R.H., and B. Daher",2017,Beyond zero sum game allocations: expanding resources potentials through reduced interdependencies and increased resource nexus synergies,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,8,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The 2016 World Water Week, with the theme ‘Water for Sustainable Growth’... highlights the extent to which SDGs 6 and 8, water and economic growth, are tightly interconnected and central to the success of other goals",,"As economies and populations grow, so do the assets, economic activities, populations and the water-related risks faced. These risks include service disruptions, drought, floods, declining water quality (contamination), and increased pressure on water resources. Planning investments for a more sustainable future, accounting for the interlinkages between water and growth are imperative. Water is a key element for the growth of civiliza- tions throughout history: an instrumental resource for both agricultural and industrial sectors, water is critical to maintain the livelihood of communities. 3 out of 4 natural disasters in the world are water related: the annual price tag associated with flood damage to property is estimated at US$120 billion, while the annual cost of inaction is estimated to be nearly US$ 500 billion. Improved water management brings the potential of reduced loss or damage while building resilience in the face of water related natural disasters. Good water management underpins economic growth, enhances productivity and increases trade. Investment in information, infrastructure, and institutions, is a precursor to sustainable growth. Growth provides critical resources and incentives for achieving water security, mitigating water related risks, offering opportunities for investing in sustainable water resources management. There are numerous examples of the negative impacts of growth on water resources. Development pathways should factor in water security to avoid future liabilities at higher cost.",,,Strong,,"Holistic approach is needed for implementation of the SDGs. The challenge will be to ensure that economies grow sustainably without jeopardizing water security, which in turn play a role in continued growth. Understanding the trade-offs associated with different growth pathways will play a critical role in avoiding those challenges of sustainability. Moreover, water issues cross scales and are variably interconnected with different economic sectors: hence, the sustainable use of this precious resource requires local solutions. Long-term infrastructural investments must likewise be interconnected, combining investment in water infrastructure, institutions and information (data). Stakeholder involvement is needed to guide joint management of water and other resources for economic growth. ",,,84
1818,"Nadal, A., et al.",2017,Building-integrated rooftop greenhouses: An energy and environmental assessment in the mediterranean context.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The integration of urban agriculture in buildings can offer improved efficiencies; in recognition of this, the first south European example of a fully integrated rooftop greenhouse (iRTG) was designed and incorporated into the ICTA-ICP building by the Autonomous University of Barcelona.   ",,"A rooftop greenhouse (RTG), whereby soil-free farming methods such as hydroponics or aeroponics may be integrated into a building, is an urban agriculture concept in which additional efficiencies can be derived from the integration of buildings and food production. Although considerable amounts of nonrenewable energy are conventionally used to operate greenhouses in central Europe, an integrated method could help decarbonise greenhouse-based food production and promote more efficient and sustainable greenhouse heating  The energy-intensive nature of agriculture and the built environment offers opportunities in which an integrated approach can lead to more efficient resource management. The thermal interchange between the iRTG and the ICTA-ICP building has considerable moderating effects on the iRTG’s indoor climate; since average hourly temperatures in an equivalent freestanding greenhouse would have been 4.1  C colder in winter and 4.4  C warmer in summer under the 2015 climatic conditions. The simulation results demonstrate that the iRTG case study recycled 43.78 MWh of thermal energy (or 341.93 kWh/m2/yr) from the main building in 2015. Assuming 100% energy conversion efficiency, compared to freestanding greenhouses heated with oil, gas or biomass systems, the iRTG delivered an equivalent carbon savings of 113.8, 82.4 or 5.5 kg CO2(eq)/m2/yr, respectively, and economic savings of 19.63, 15.88 or 17.33 €/m2/yr, respectively.",,,Medium,"Buildings account for approximately half of the world’s primary energy consumption, and agriculture and food production are reported to consume between 13 and 15% of total energy in developed countries. Greenhouses are one of the most energy-demanding components of the agricultural industry because ideal climatic conditions are created by closely controlling internal temperature and humidity levels for satisfactory plant growth in central and northern Europe.  World urbanisation will increase from 50% in 2009 to 69% in 2050. A total of 75% of the EU population currently lives in cities, a percentage that is expected to rise to 80% by 2020. This high concentration of people in cities has major socio-economic ramifications, and food production and its supply and security requires closer examination. Almost a billion people suffer from malnutrition, and 400 million are chronically undernourished. Conversely, urbanisation has generated a two-pronged nutritional burden: nutritional deficiencies and the emergence of over-nutrition among vulnerable groups in urban areas.  In developing countries today 800 million people are engaged in urban agriculture, producing 15–20% of the world’s food. It is believed that 10–20% of the nutritional needs of families living in urban areas in developing countries are met by the consumption of fruits and vegetables from urban agriculture.  Some energy use pf greenhouses is unavoidable and results in energy accounting for 10–30 percent of total production costs (depending on the region). In Mediterranean areas, the annual energy consumption for space conditioning is 139–444 kWh/m2, which arises from winter night heating requirements (and is increasingly being adopted), although the majority of Mediterranean greenhouses remain unheated.  The energy used by the building sector continues to increase; worldwide, 30–40% of all primary energy is used in buildings. One third of energy-related CO2 emissions and two thirds of halocarbon emissions worldwide are attributed to buildings. Electricity consumption in the commercial building sector doubled between 1980 and 2000 and is expected to increase by another 50% by 2025.",Future research will focus on the characterisation of bidirectional energy performance between the greenhouse and the building to quantify potential heating energy savings in the ICTA-ICP building derived from the rooftop greenhouse and to analyse the implementation of the iRTG concept in different geographical areas of the world where urban agriculture and improved energy efficiency in the built environment can be combined.,,Based on case study,338
1819,"Nadal, A., et al.",2017,Building-integrated rooftop greenhouses: An energy and environmental assessment in the mediterranean context.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,9,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Given the global need for responsible energy consumption in buildings and the urgency to secure food supplies, the contribution of this project is principally a design concept that creates a nexus or symbiosis between building energy flow and food production.",,"Through iRTG, a building can be viewed as an element that, in addition to meeting the need for cover and protection, has the ability to support food production - regardless of its location around the world. Megacities and developing cities have considerable artificialised areas and huge populations; the development of iRTG’s affords the opportunity to produce and consume zero km vegetables with no increases in the energy consumptions of the buildings. That is, the concept of iRTG seeks to change the heterotrophic ecosystem of cities to an autotrophic urban ecosystem that does not require food imports from rural areas.",,,Medium,"Buildings account for approximately half of the world’s primary energy consumption, and agriculture and food production are reported to consume between 13 and 15% of total energy in developed countries. Greenhouses are one of the most energy-demanding components of the agricultural industry because ideal climatic conditions are created by closely controlling internal temperature and humidity levels for satisfactory plant growth in central and northern Europe.  World urbanisation will increase from 50% in 2009 to 69% in 2050. A total of 75% of the EU population currently lives in cities, a percentage that is expected to rise to 80% by 2020. This high concentration of people in cities has major socio-economic ramifications, and food production and its supply and security requires closer examination. Almost a billion people suffer from malnutrition, and 400 million are chronically undernourished. Conversely, urbanisation has generated a two-pronged nutritional burden: nutritional deficiencies and the emergence of over-nutrition among vulnerable groups in urban areas.  In developing countries today 800 million people are engaged in urban agriculture, producing 15–20% of the world’s food. It is believed that 10–20% of the nutritional needs of families living in urban areas in developing countries are met by the consumption of fruits and vegetables from urban agriculture.  Some energy use pf greenhouses is unavoidable and results in energy accounting for 10–30 percent of total production costs (depending on the region). In Mediterranean areas, the annual energy consumption for space conditioning is 139–444 kWh/m2, which arises from winter night heating requirements (and is increasingly being adopted), although the majority of Mediterranean greenhouses remain unheated.  The energy used by the building sector continues to increase; worldwide, 30–40% of all primary energy is used in buildings. One third of energy-related CO2 emissions and two thirds of halocarbon emissions worldwide are attributed to buildings. Electricity consumption in the commercial building sector doubled between 1980 and 2000 and is expected to increase by another 50% by 2025.",Future research will focus on the characterisation of bidirectional energy performance between the greenhouse and the building to quantify potential heating energy savings in the ICTA-ICP building derived from the rooftop greenhouse and to analyse the implementation of the iRTG concept in different geographical areas of the world where urban agriculture and improved energy efficiency in the built environment can be combined.,,Based on case study,340
1820,"Nakayama, T.",2016,New perspective for eco-hydrology model to constrain missing role of inland waters on boundless biogeochemical cycle in terrestrial–aquatic continuum,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"inland waters may play a significant role in sequestration, transport and mineralization of carbon, which would be further complicated by surface–groundwater  interactions around wetland and riparian areas, where complex water movement drives carbon storage and fluxes.",,"Recently, some studies have pointed out that inland waters including rivers, lakes, and groundwater may act as a gigantic transport pathway for both water and dissolved substances and play some role in continental biogeochemical cycling, so-called ‘boundless carbon cycle’. The vast majority of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) emissions are usually related to the natural cycles, but sometimes and somewhere land-use change, hydraulic constructions, anthropogenic emissions, and climatic change affect certainly the great change in carbon cycle through water pollution, hydrologic change, and CO2 concentration in the air, etc. Their contribution to continental-scale carbon cycling has remained uncertain because they are generally more difficult to measure and the available data for global aquatic ecosystems are fewer and more heterogeneous than those for terrestrial ecosystems.",,,Strong,"A recent comprehensive analysis of Raymond et al. (2013) revealed global CO2 evasion (degassing) rate of 2.1 PgC/year from inland waters (rivers and lakes), which is much higher than previous estimates of 1.2 PgC/year and 1.4 PgC/year, and predicted global hotspots with 70% of the flux occurring over just 20% of the land surface. Further, some research has shown that CO2 emission from rivers may account for up to 10% of net ecosystem exchange, thus possibly altering the carbon balance of terrestrial systems.","A new advanced model coupling eco-hydrology and biogeochemical cycle (NICE-BGC) calculates the whole process of carbon cycling including surface runoff, groundwater, weathering, CO2 evasion and sediment storage in water, and outflow to the ocean, and therefore has a potential to evaluate the carbon budget in details in the future. There are still areas for improvement to increase the precision and accuracy of the simulations; carbon assimilated by plants and water availability, weathering process, and the carbon cycle in the estuary, etc. ",,"The paper reviews the recent progress in modeling the role of inland water in biogeochemical cycle toward coupling of eco-hydrology and biogeochemical cycle model in terrestrial–aquatic continuum. One of the fundamentals of eco-hydrology model is to incorporate a complex relation between soil, water, temperature, plant, and carbon.",139
1821,"Nilsson, M., et al. ",2016,Policy: Map the interactions between Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,Sub-Saharan Africa,Regional,,,,,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In sub-Saharan Africa, ending hunger (goal 2) interacts positively with several other goals — including poverty eradication (goal 1), health promotion (goal 3) and achieving quality education for all (goal 4). ",,,,,,,,,"The authors propose propose a seven-point scale of SDG interactions to organize evidence and support decisionmaking about national priorities. This should help policymakers and researchers to identify and test development pathways that minimize negative interactions and enhance positive ones. And it is globally applicable so that countries can compare and contrast, and learn from each other and over time.",322
1822,"Nilsson, M., et al. ",2016,Policy: Map the interactions between Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,Sub-Saharan Africa,Regional,,,,,2,4,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In sub-Saharan Africa, ending hunger (goal 2) interacts positively with several other goals — including poverty eradication (goal 1), health promotion (goal 3) and achieving quality education for all (goal 4). ",,"Tackling malnourishment reinforces (+2) educational efforts because children can concentrate and perform better in school. Not addressing food security would counteract (–2) education, when the poorest children have to help provide food for the day.",,,,,,,"The authors propose propose a seven-point scale of SDG interactions to organize evidence and support decisionmaking about national priorities. This should help policymakers and researchers to identify and test development pathways that minimize negative interactions and enhance positive ones. And it is globally applicable so that countries can compare and contrast, and learn from each other and over time.",322
1823,"Nilsson, M., et al. ",2016,Policy: Map the interactions between Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,Sub-Saharan Africa,Regional,,,,,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Food production is reinforced (+2) by a stable climate. Securing food from fisheries is also reinforced by protecting the climate, because that limits ocean warming and acidification. ",,,,,,,,,"The authors propose propose a seven-point scale of SDG interactions to organize evidence and support decisionmaking about national priorities. This should help policymakers and researchers to identify and test development pathways that minimize negative interactions and enhance positive ones. And it is globally applicable so that countries can compare and contrast, and learn from each other and over time.",322
1824,"Norstrom, A.V., et al.",2014,Three necessary conditions for establishing effective Sustainable Development Goals in the Anthropocene,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.16,17.14,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"An achievable and shared set of SDGs must inspire public support, and needs to be taken and implemented at multiple levels of governance. Such a universal set of SDGs needs to stem from a broad participatory process and inclusive vision of the future that allows for deliberation between science and societal actors. Considering the rapid development of information technologies, there is an unprecedented opportunity to build a highly energized network that engages the world’s governments, scientific communities, business, and civil society in inclusive, global-scale collaboration on formulating and identifying SDGs and the pathways needed to reach them. ",,,,,Strong,,,,"The authors argue that the formulation, substance, and implementation of the SDGs should be framed by three key insights from a growing transdisciplinary body of work that is fusing ecology, economics, psychology, global governance, and socio-technological systems studies. First, human and natural systems are inseparably linked and nested across scales, and should be dealt with as socialecological systems. Second, SDGs must acknowledge and navigate trade-offs between goal ambition and goal feasibility. Third, both the formulation of the SDGs and all implementation efforts should be guided by existing knowledge about the drivers, dynamics, and limitations of social change processes at all scales, from the individual to the global.",5
1825,"Norstrom, A.V., et al.",2014,Three necessary conditions for establishing effective Sustainable Development Goals in the Anthropocene,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.17,17.14,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"An achievable and shared set of SDGs must inspire public support, and needs to be taken and implemented at multiple levels of governance. Such a universal set of SDGs needs to stem from a broad participatory process and inclusive vision of the future that allows for deliberation between science and societal actors. Considering the rapid development of information technologies, there is an unprecedented opportunity to build a highly energized network that engages the world’s governments, scientific communities, business, and civil society in inclusive, global-scale collaboration on formulating and identifying SDGs and the pathways needed to reach them. ",,,,,Strong,,,,"The authors argue that the formulation, substance, and implementation of the SDGs should be framed by three key insights from a growing transdisciplinary body of work that is fusing ecology, economics, psychology, global governance, and socio-technological systems studies. First, human and natural systems are inseparably linked and nested across scales, and should be dealt with as socialecological systems. Second, SDGs must acknowledge and navigate trade-offs between goal ambition and goal feasibility. Third, both the formulation of the SDGs and all implementation efforts should be guided by existing knowledge about the drivers, dynamics, and limitations of social change processes at all scales, from the individual to the global.",5
1826,"Norstrom, A.V., et al.",2014,Three necessary conditions for establishing effective Sustainable Development Goals in the Anthropocene,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.6,17.14,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"An achievable and shared set of SDGs must inspire public support, and needs to be taken and implemented at multiple levels of governance. Such a universal set of SDGs needs to stem from a broad participatory process and inclusive vision of the future that allows for deliberation between science and societal actors. Considering the rapid development of information technologies, there is an unprecedented opportunity to build a highly energized network that engages the world’s governments, scientific communities, business, and civil society in inclusive, global-scale collaboration on formulating and identifying SDGs and the pathways needed to reach them. ",,,,,Strong,,,,"The authors argue that the formulation, substance, and implementation of the SDGs should be framed by three key insights from a growing transdisciplinary body of work that is fusing ecology, economics, psychology, global governance, and socio-technological systems studies. First, human and natural systems are inseparably linked and nested across scales, and should be dealt with as socialecological systems. Second, SDGs must acknowledge and navigate trade-offs between goal ambition and goal feasibility. Third, both the formulation of the SDGs and all implementation efforts should be guided by existing knowledge about the drivers, dynamics, and limitations of social change processes at all scales, from the individual to the global.",5
1827,"Nygard, H.M.",2017,Achieving the sustainable development agenda: The governance - conflict nexus.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,4,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In the view of the Norwegian authorities, education, in addition to being an engine for economic growth and a prerequisite for development, is a critical human right and a vital ingredient in any individual’s personal development",,,,,Strong,"In the 1970s, South Korea and Ghana had similar per capita incomes. In both countries, around 40% of the population was enrolled in secondary education. South Korea increased its funding for education in the 1970s, and by the late 1990s achieved nearly universal secondary schooling. Ghana invested less than 2% of its GNP in education in the 1980s, while South Korea invested around 4%. Of course many factors influence economic growth, but the undeniable fact that in 2012 the national per capita income in South Korea was about 16 times higher than in Ghana, is a powerful testament to the importance of investing in education.",,,"This article discusses development cooperation under the new SDG agenda with a special focus on Norway’s efforts. It provides background on the governance system for development cooperation and discusses particular issues and topics present policy focuses on, and strategies and policies for achieving the SDG agenda for Norway, both at home and abroad.",11
1828,"Nygard, H.M.",2017,Achieving the sustainable development agenda: The governance - conflict nexus.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,4,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Any functioning education system relies on a well-functioning state with a professional and independent but accountable bureaucracy. In short, good education relies on good governance. Moreover, achieving the education goals is next to impossible in contexts marked by large-scale armed conflict and endemic violence.",,"Gates et al. (2012) analysed the effect of armed conflict on the MDGs and found a detrimental effect of conflict across several of them. The effect of conflict intensity, measured in direct battle deaths, on primary education enrolment shows that a war with 10,000 battle deaths and average sized conflict is associated with a relative decrease in education attainment of about 7.5 percentage points.   Moreover, conflict is also directly related to gender inequality in education",,,Strong,"it is estimated that 38 million out of about 230 million children in conflict countries and fragile states fail to attain primary education, or about 4 million children per year. About 30% of the children that fail to complete primary education live in these countries.",,,"This article discusses development cooperation under the new SDG agenda with a special focus on Norway’s efforts. It provides background on the governance system for development cooperation and discusses particular issues and topics present policy focuses on, and strategies and policies for achieving the SDG agenda for Norway, both at home and abroad.  A particular challenge that needs to be taken into account in the shift from MDGs to SDGs is the politically sensitive nature of some of the goals. As noted above, the issues of justice and peace have traditionally not been seen to be part of the UN’s, or other multilateral agencies, development agenda. Indeed, many countries still strongly uphold their sovereignty on any issues relating to these topics. This is likely to become an issue also for goals that on the surface appear uncontroversial. For the education goal, for instance, the wording of the overall goal sounds innocuous, but several of the targets that directly address issues of the quality, content and equality of education will in many countries be perceived as anything but uncontroversial.",5
1829,"Nygard, H.M.",2017,Achieving the sustainable development agenda: The governance - conflict nexus.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"if the international community is to achieve the SDGs in poor and fragile settings, tackling issues of governance and conflict is critical.",,,,,Strong,,,,"This article discusses development cooperation under the new SDG agenda with a special focus on Norway’s efforts. It provides background on the governance system for development cooperation and discusses particular issues and topics present policy focuses on, and strategies and policies for achieving the SDG agenda for Norway, both at home and abroad.  A particular challenge that needs to be taken into account in the shift from MDGs to SDGs is the politically sensitive nature of some of the goals. As noted above, the issues of justice and peace have traditionally not been seen to be part of the UN’s, or other multilateral agencies, development agenda. Indeed, many countries still strongly uphold their sovereignty on any issues relating to these topics. This is likely to become an issue also for goals that on the surface appear uncontroversial. For the education goal, for instance, the wording of the overall goal sounds innocuous, but several of the targets that directly address issues of the quality, content and equality of education will in many countries be perceived as anything but uncontroversial.",6
1830,"Nygard, H.M.",2017,Achieving the sustainable development agenda: The governance - conflict nexus.,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.19,17.7,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Again as discussed above, Norway sees a results-based approach to development cooperation as fundamental to achieving sustainable development. Results-based policies can, however, only, be achieved when sufficiently fine-grained data exist to track and measure progress. In this, bodies such as the UN Statistical Commission will play a vital role over the coming years in defining, conceptualizing and operationalizing the indicators meant to be used to track the SDG.",,,,,Strong,,,,"This article discusses development cooperation under the new SDG agenda with a special focus on Norway’s efforts. It provides background on the governance system for development cooperation and discusses particular issues and topics present policy focuses on, and strategies and policies for achieving the SDG agenda for Norway, both at home and abroad.","15, 16"
1831,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Sustainable Consumption and Production policies (goal 12) are most effective at minimizing trade-offs and argue for their centrality to the formulation of coherent SDG strategies. SCP policies (for example, yield growth, agricultural resilience, and waste mitigation) generate the greatest and most broadly distributed benefits to nutrient cycling, water use, and overall food security outcomes. ",,"SDG strategies that achieve their goals by shifting pressure onto food production systems intensify the trade offs between conservation agendas and food security. These trade-offs intensify further with the ambition of SDG strategies and over time. On the other hand, policies that manage food system pressure mitigate trade-offs by simultaneously increasing the availability of land, water, and food for the full range of SDG priorities. This is indicative of significant trade-offs among water land conservation, and climate mitigation SDGs. GHG pricing, a cross-sectorial policy, leads to broadly improved environmental outcomes while maintaining efficient food price trade-offs.  Land-use change restrictions (that is, policies in the biodiversity conservation and terrestrial ecosystems clusters) work as designed to mitigate the destruction of natural forests and habitats as well as GHG emissions but can pressurize water cycles by increasing reliance on irrigation.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,"1, 4"
1832,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Sustainable Consumption and Production policies (goal 12) are most effective at minimizing trade-offs and argue for their centrality to the formulation of coherent SDG strategies. SCP policies (for example, yield growth, agricultural resilience, and waste mitigation) generate the greatest and most broadly distributed benefits to nutrient cycling, water use, and overall food security outcomes. ",,"SDG strategies that achieve their goals by shifting pressure onto food production systems intensify the trade offs between conservation agendas and food security. These trade-offs intensify further with the ambition of SDG strategies and over time. On the other hand, policies that manage food system pressure mitigate trade-offs by simultaneously increasing the availability of land, water, and food for the full range of SDG priorities. This is indicative of significant trade-offs among water land conservation, and climate mitigation SDGs. GHG pricing, a cross-sectorial policy, leads to broadly improved environmental outcomes while maintaining efficient food price trade-offs.  Land-use change restrictions (that is, policies in the biodiversity conservation and terrestrial ecosystems clusters) work as designed to mitigate the destruction of natural forests and habitats as well as GHG emissions but can pressurize water cycles by increasing reliance on irrigation.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,"1, 4"
1833,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Sustainable Consumption and Production policies (goal 12) are most effective at minimizing trade-offs and argue for their centrality to the formulation of coherent SDG strategies. SCP policies (for example, yield growth, agricultural resilience, and waste mitigation) generate the greatest and most broadly distributed benefits to nutrient cycling, water use, and overall food security outcomes. ",,"SDG strategies that achieve their goals by shifting pressure onto food production systems intensify the trade offs between conservation agendas and food security. These trade-offs intensify further with the ambition of SDG strategies and over time. On the other hand, policies that manage food system pressure mitigate trade-offs by simultaneously increasing the availability of land, water, and food for the full range of SDG priorities. This is indicative of significant trade-offs among water land conservation, and climate mitigation SDGs. GHG pricing, a cross-sectorial policy, leads to broadly improved environmental outcomes while maintaining efficient food price trade-offs.  Land-use change restrictions (that is, policies in the biodiversity conservation and terrestrial ecosystems clusters) work as designed to mitigate the destruction of natural forests and habitats as well as GHG emissions but can pressurize water cycles by increasing reliance on irrigation.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,"1, 4"
1834,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"alternative socioeconomic futures-mainly, population and economic growth pathways-generate smaller impacts on the eventual achievement of land resource-related SDGs than do resource-use and management policies.",,"land system interdependencies are more significant determinants of joint environmental and food security outcomes than are population and economic growth scenarios. This suggests that mounting trade-offs are not our demographic destiny but rather the predictable consequence of siloed policies, initiatives, and choices accreting into incoherent SDG strategies.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,1
1835,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"alternative socioeconomic futures-mainly, population and economic growth pathways-generate smaller impacts on the eventual achievement of land resource-related SDGs than do resource-use and management policies.",,"land system interdependencies are more significant determinants of joint environmental and food security outcomes than are population and economic growth scenarios. This suggests that mounting trade-offs are not our demographic destiny but rather the predictable consequence of siloed policies, initiatives, and choices accreting into incoherent SDG strategies.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,1
1836,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"alternative socioeconomic futures-mainly, population and economic growth pathways-generate smaller impacts on the eventual achievement of land resource-related SDGs than do resource-use and management policies.",,"land system interdependencies are more significant determinants of joint environmental and food security outcomes than are population and economic growth scenarios. This suggests that mounting trade-offs are not our demographic destiny but rather the predictable consequence of siloed policies, initiatives, and choices accreting into incoherent SDG strategies.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,1
1837,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"alternative socioeconomic futures-mainly, population and economic growth pathways-generate smaller impacts on the eventual achievement of land resource-related SDGs than do resource-use and management policies.",,"land system interdependencies are more significant determinants of joint environmental and food security outcomes than are population and economic growth scenarios. This suggests that mounting trade-offs are not our demographic destiny but rather the predictable consequence of siloed policies, initiatives, and choices accreting into incoherent SDG strategies.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,1
1838,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"alternative socioeconomic futures-mainly, population and economic growth pathways-generate smaller impacts on the eventual achievement of land resource-related SDGs than do resource-use and management policies.",,"land system interdependencies are more significant determinants of joint environmental and food security outcomes than are population and economic growth scenarios. This suggests that mounting trade-offs are not our demographic destiny but rather the predictable consequence of siloed policies, initiatives, and choices accreting into incoherent SDG strategies.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,1
1839,"Obersteiner, M., et al.",2016,Assessing the land resource-food price nexus of the Sustainable Development Goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"alternative socioeconomic futures-mainly, population and economic growth pathways-generate smaller impacts on the eventual achievement of land resource-related SDGs than do resource-use and management policies.",,"land system interdependencies are more significant determinants of joint environmental and food security outcomes than are population and economic growth scenarios. This suggests that mounting trade-offs are not our demographic destiny but rather the predictable consequence of siloed policies, initiatives, and choices accreting into incoherent SDG strategies.",,,Strong,,,,In this analysis a comprehensive modeling approach is adopted to understand how coherent policy combinations can manage trade-offs among environmental conservation initiatives and food prices.,1
1840,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,2,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1841,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,2,9,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1842,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,2,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1843,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,2,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1844,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,7,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1845,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,7,9,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1846,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,7,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1847,"O'Brien, M., et al.",2017,"Toward a systemic monitoring of the European bioeconomy: Gaps, needs and the integration of sustainability indicators and targets for global land use",Academic-peer reviewed,EU,Regional,,,,,7,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The bioeconomy is gaining growing attention as a possible win–win strategy for low-carbon growth and competitiveness in the EU. Leaning on the European Commission’s “Bioeconomy Strategy”, bioeconomy is defined as “the production [and consumption] of renewable biological resources and their conversion into food, feed, bio-based products and bioenergy” (EC, 2012). It is seen as an opportunity to boost innovation, create jobs in rural and industrial areas, reduce fossil fuel dependence and improve economic and environmental sustainability",,"increasing risks associated with a growing bioeconomy, in particular regarding the scale of global land use. Land competition is very likely to increase in the future, both to meet the dietary requirements of a growing world population and to meet energy and material demands in, increasingly, high tech industries and markets for bio-based products. The EU already cannot meet its total demand for food, feed and crop-based products on its own territory, and it is expected to also become import-dependent for timber and timber-based products in the near future. The land footprints, which encompass the amount of global land used to produce goods and services devoted to satisfying the domestic final biomass demand of a country, are disproportionately high in the EU",,,Strong,On a per person basis the EU uses around 30% more global cropland than the world average,"there is a need to monitor, among other issues (1) the overall development of the bioeconomy, ensuring a transition to a sustainable economic system on a viable biophysical basis, (2) the processes and shifts within the bioeconomy transition itself to support and steer innovation toward smart solutions, such as cascading use of biomass, and (3) the effects of innovations which follow bionic principles while reducing the pressure on natural ecosystems, such as industrial photosynthesis.",,"This article argues that a framework for systemic monitoring is needed that accounts for the bioeconomy as a whole, takes multiple levels of analysis into account in a dynamic way, and includes indicators and targets for evaluating sustainability. It assesses the scientific tools that can serve as building blocks for such a framework, focusing in particular on system modeling, and discusses the strengths and weakness of different types of models and methods. Finally, research gaps and needs are identified, in particular toward an integration of indicators and targets in a strategic monitoring dashboard.",162
1848,"Pahl-Wostl, C.",2017,Governance of the water-energy-food security nexus: A multi-level coordination challenge,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Future Earth... identified the Water-Energy-Food (WEF) nexus as one of the focal challenges to be addressed by the program: “Deliver water, energy, and food for all, and manage the synergies and trade-offs among them, by understanding how these interactions are shaped by environmental, economic, social and political changes” Without adopting a WEF nexus approach, the SDGs on water, energy and food will not be achieved which would as well have implications for all other SDGs.","The WEF nexus approach aims at holistically approaching different policy fields from the outset. The nexus should be governed with a focus on interaction between policy fields and not on policy fields in isolation.   To date, no national or international policy frameworks exist that explicitly address coordination of water energy and food and thus the WEF nexus. The need for integration in governance and management characterized the global debate in water, but also in energy and food/agricultural policy over the past decades. Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) has been an attempt to initiate fundamental governance reform and to integrate water with other policy objectives. In the domain of agriculture, the concept of multi-functionality that takes into account that economic activities have multiple outputs and may thus serve several functions has been promoted. This concept implies that positive and negative market externalities and the public goods generated by agricultural activities should be explicitly taken into account in agricultural policies. In the domain of energy the major policy concern has been the transition towards renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Even when in the domains of water and agriculture integrated concepts have already entered the policy domains success in implementation is quite limited","In the past, interdependencies between these resources have often been neglected in sectoral policies with the consequence of persistent trade-offs rather than identification and strengthening of synergies. Such developments are particularly worrying in the light of increasing uncertainties and increasing pressures on resources management due to global change (i.e. rapid economic development, population growth, climate change, increased exploitation of renewable energy sources).",,,Strong,,"There is a need to negotiate what are acceptable trade-offs and at which level human-wellbeing, economic production and environmental integrity should be sustained. Balancing the different dimensions of water security has already been identified as problematic due to the different logics of how to determine what acceptable risks are. Balancing water, energy, and food security is even more challenging given the diverse definitions and interpretations of the security concepts, the absence of effective governance structures to support negotiations, and the lack of systemic governance instruments. What is required is an approach that allows diagnosing trade-offs and security problems in the WEF nexus and that is meaningful at different levels and different stages of governance processes. The ecosystem services concept may be an approach with much potential in this respect.",,"This paper argues in favour of the development of a nexus paradigm as guiding principle for design and self-organization of nexus governance systems. Such a paradigm could be anchored in addressing water, energy and food security from a nexus perspective if such a security concept is appropriately defined and operationalized.",1
1849,"Pahl-Wostl, C.",2017,Governance of the water-energy-food security nexus: A multi-level coordination challenge,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Future Earth... identified the Water-Energy-Food (WEF) nexus as one of the focal challenges to be addressed by the program: “Deliver water, energy, and food for all, and manage the synergies and trade-offs among them, by understanding how these interactions are shaped by environmental, economic, social and political changes” Without adopting a WEF nexus approach, the SDGs on water, energy and food will not be achieved which would as well have implications for all other SDGs.","The WEF nexus approach aims at holistically approaching different policy fields from the outset. The nexus should be governed with a focus on interaction between policy fields and not on policy fields in isolation.   To date, no national or international policy frameworks exist that explicitly address coordination of water energy and food and thus the WEF nexus. The need for integration in governance and management characterized the global debate in water, but also in energy and food/agricultural policy over the past decades. Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) has been an attempt to initiate fundamental governance reform and to integrate water with other policy objectives. In the domain of agriculture, the concept of multi-functionality that takes into account that economic activities have multiple outputs and may thus serve several functions has been promoted. This concept implies that positive and negative market externalities and the public goods generated by agricultural activities should be explicitly taken into account in agricultural policies. In the domain of energy the major policy concern has been the transition towards renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Even when in the domains of water and agriculture integrated concepts have already entered the policy domains success in implementation is quite limited","In the past, interdependencies between these resources have often been neglected in sectoral policies with the consequence of persistent trade-offs rather than identification and strengthening of synergies. Such developments are particularly worrying in the light of increasing uncertainties and increasing pressures on resources management due to global change (i.e. rapid economic development, population growth, climate change, increased exploitation of renewable energy sources).",,,Strong,,"There is a need to negotiate what are acceptable trade-offs and at which level human-wellbeing, economic production and environmental integrity should be sustained. Balancing the different dimensions of water security has already been identified as problematic due to the different logics of how to determine what acceptable risks are. Balancing water, energy, and food security is even more challenging given the diverse definitions and interpretations of the security concepts, the absence of effective governance structures to support negotiations, and the lack of systemic governance instruments. What is required is an approach that allows diagnosing trade-offs and security problems in the WEF nexus and that is meaningful at different levels and different stages of governance processes. The ecosystem services concept may be an approach with much potential in this respect.",,"This paper argues in favour of the development of a nexus paradigm as guiding principle for design and self-organization of nexus governance systems. Such a paradigm could be anchored in addressing water, energy and food security from a nexus perspective if such a security concept is appropriately defined and operationalized.","1, 10"
1850,"Pahl-Wostl, C.",2017,Governance of the water-energy-food security nexus: A multi-level coordination challenge,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Future Earth... identified the Water-Energy-Food (WEF) nexus as one of the focal challenges to be addressed by the program: “Deliver water, energy, and food for all, and manage the synergies and trade-offs among them, by understanding how these interactions are shaped by environmental, economic, social and political changes” Without adopting a WEF nexus approach, the SDGs on water, energy and food will not be achieved which would as well have implications for all other SDGs.","The WEF nexus approach aims at holistically approaching different policy fields from the outset. The nexus should be governed with a focus on interaction between policy fields and not on policy fields in isolation.   To date, no national or international policy frameworks exist that explicitly address coordination of water energy and food and thus the WEF nexus. The need for integration in governance and management characterized the global debate in water, but also in energy and food/agricultural policy over the past decades. Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) has been an attempt to initiate fundamental governance reform and to integrate water with other policy objectives. In the domain of agriculture, the concept of multi-functionality that takes into account that economic activities have multiple outputs and may thus serve several functions has been promoted. This concept implies that positive and negative market externalities and the public goods generated by agricultural activities should be explicitly taken into account in agricultural policies. In the domain of energy the major policy concern has been the transition towards renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Even when in the domains of water and agriculture integrated concepts have already entered the policy domains success in implementation is quite limited","In the past, interdependencies between these resources have often been neglected in sectoral policies with the consequence of persistent trade-offs rather than identification and strengthening of synergies. Such developments are particularly worrying in the light of increasing uncertainties and increasing pressures on resources management due to global change (i.e. rapid economic development, population growth, climate change, increased exploitation of renewable energy sources).",,,Strong,,"There is a need to negotiate what are acceptable trade-offs and at which level human-wellbeing, economic production and environmental integrity should be sustained. Balancing the different dimensions of water security has already been identified as problematic due to the different logics of how to determine what acceptable risks are. Balancing water, energy, and food security is even more challenging given the diverse definitions and interpretations of the security concepts, the absence of effective governance structures to support negotiations, and the lack of systemic governance instruments. What is required is an approach that allows diagnosing trade-offs and security problems in the WEF nexus and that is meaningful at different levels and different stages of governance processes. The ecosystem services concept may be an approach with much potential in this respect.",,"This paper argues in favour of the development of a nexus paradigm as guiding principle for design and self-organization of nexus governance systems. Such a paradigm could be anchored in addressing water, energy and food security from a nexus perspective if such a security concept is appropriately defined and operationalized.","1, 10"
1851,"Pahl-Wostl, C.",2017,Governance of the water-energy-food security nexus: A multi-level coordination challenge,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Future Earth... identified the Water-Energy-Food (WEF) nexus as one of the focal challenges to be addressed by the program: “Deliver water, energy, and food for all, and manage the synergies and trade-offs among them, by understanding how these interactions are shaped by environmental, economic, social and political changes” Without adopting a WEF nexus approach, the SDGs on water, energy and food will not be achieved which would as well have implications for all other SDGs.","The WEF nexus approach aims at holistically approaching different policy fields from the outset. The nexus should be governed with a focus on interaction between policy fields and not on policy fields in isolation.   To date, no national or international policy frameworks exist that explicitly address coordination of water energy and food and thus the WEF nexus. The need for integration in governance and management characterized the global debate in water, but also in energy and food/agricultural policy over the past decades. Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) has been an attempt to initiate fundamental governance reform and to integrate water with other policy objectives. In the domain of agriculture, the concept of multi-functionality that takes into account that economic activities have multiple outputs and may thus serve several functions has been promoted. This concept implies that positive and negative market externalities and the public goods generated by agricultural activities should be explicitly taken into account in agricultural policies. In the domain of energy the major policy concern has been the transition towards renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Even when in the domains of water and agriculture integrated concepts have already entered the policy domains success in implementation is quite limited","In the past, interdependencies between these resources have often been neglected in sectoral policies with the consequence of persistent trade-offs rather than identification and strengthening of synergies. Such developments are particularly worrying in the light of increasing uncertainties and increasing pressures on resources management due to global change (i.e. rapid economic development, population growth, climate change, increased exploitation of renewable energy sources).",,,Strong,,"There is a need to negotiate what are acceptable trade-offs and at which level human-wellbeing, economic production and environmental integrity should be sustained. Balancing the different dimensions of water security has already been identified as problematic due to the different logics of how to determine what acceptable risks are. Balancing water, energy, and food security is even more challenging given the diverse definitions and interpretations of the security concepts, the absence of effective governance structures to support negotiations, and the lack of systemic governance instruments. What is required is an approach that allows diagnosing trade-offs and security problems in the WEF nexus and that is meaningful at different levels and different stages of governance processes. The ecosystem services concept may be an approach with much potential in this respect.",,"This paper argues in favour of the development of a nexus paradigm as guiding principle for design and self-organization of nexus governance systems. Such a paradigm could be anchored in addressing water, energy and food security from a nexus perspective if such a security concept is appropriately defined and operationalized.","1, 10"
1852,"Pahl-Wostl, C.",2017,Governance of the water-energy-food security nexus: A multi-level coordination challenge,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Future Earth... identified the Water-Energy-Food (WEF) nexus as one of the focal challenges to be addressed by the program: “Deliver water, energy, and food for all, and manage the synergies and trade-offs among them, by understanding how these interactions are shaped by environmental, economic, social and political changes” Without adopting a WEF nexus approach, the SDGs on water, energy and food will not be achieved which would as well have implications for all other SDGs.","The WEF nexus approach aims at holistically approaching different policy fields from the outset. The nexus should be governed with a focus on interaction between policy fields and not on policy fields in isolation.   To date, no national or international policy frameworks exist that explicitly address coordination of water energy and food and thus the WEF nexus. The need for integration in governance and management characterized the global debate in water, but also in energy and food/agricultural policy over the past decades. Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) has been an attempt to initiate fundamental governance reform and to integrate water with other policy objectives. In the domain of agriculture, the concept of multi-functionality that takes into account that economic activities have multiple outputs and may thus serve several functions has been promoted. This concept implies that positive and negative market externalities and the public goods generated by agricultural activities should be explicitly taken into account in agricultural policies. In the domain of energy the major policy concern has been the transition towards renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Even when in the domains of water and agriculture integrated concepts have already entered the policy domains success in implementation is quite limited","In the past, interdependencies between these resources have often been neglected in sectoral policies with the consequence of persistent trade-offs rather than identification and strengthening of synergies. Such developments are particularly worrying in the light of increasing uncertainties and increasing pressures on resources management due to global change (i.e. rapid economic development, population growth, climate change, increased exploitation of renewable energy sources).",,,Strong,,"There is a need to negotiate what are acceptable trade-offs and at which level human-wellbeing, economic production and environmental integrity should be sustained. Balancing the different dimensions of water security has already been identified as problematic due to the different logics of how to determine what acceptable risks are. Balancing water, energy, and food security is even more challenging given the diverse definitions and interpretations of the security concepts, the absence of effective governance structures to support negotiations, and the lack of systemic governance instruments. What is required is an approach that allows diagnosing trade-offs and security problems in the WEF nexus and that is meaningful at different levels and different stages of governance processes. The ecosystem services concept may be an approach with much potential in this respect.",,"This paper argues in favour of the development of a nexus paradigm as guiding principle for design and self-organization of nexus governance systems. Such a paradigm could be anchored in addressing water, energy and food security from a nexus perspective if such a security concept is appropriately defined and operationalized.","1, 10"
1853,"Pahl-Wostl, C.",2017,Governance of the water-energy-food security nexus: A multi-level coordination challenge,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Future Earth... identified the Water-Energy-Food (WEF) nexus as one of the focal challenges to be addressed by the program: “Deliver water, energy, and food for all, and manage the synergies and trade-offs among them, by understanding how these interactions are shaped by environmental, economic, social and political changes” Without adopting a WEF nexus approach, the SDGs on water, energy and food will not be achieved which would as well have implications for all other SDGs.","The WEF nexus approach aims at holistically approaching different policy fields from the outset. The nexus should be governed with a focus on interaction between policy fields and not on policy fields in isolation.   To date, no national or international policy frameworks exist that explicitly address coordination of water energy and food and thus the WEF nexus. The need for integration in governance and management characterized the global debate in water, but also in energy and food/agricultural policy over the past decades. Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) has been an attempt to initiate fundamental governance reform and to integrate water with other policy objectives. In the domain of agriculture, the concept of multi-functionality that takes into account that economic activities have multiple outputs and may thus serve several functions has been promoted. This concept implies that positive and negative market externalities and the public goods generated by agricultural activities should be explicitly taken into account in agricultural policies. In the domain of energy the major policy concern has been the transition towards renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Even when in the domains of water and agriculture integrated concepts have already entered the policy domains success in implementation is quite limited","In the past, interdependencies between these resources have often been neglected in sectoral policies with the consequence of persistent trade-offs rather than identification and strengthening of synergies. Such developments are particularly worrying in the light of increasing uncertainties and increasing pressures on resources management due to global change (i.e. rapid economic development, population growth, climate change, increased exploitation of renewable energy sources).",,,Strong,,"There is a need to negotiate what are acceptable trade-offs and at which level human-wellbeing, economic production and environmental integrity should be sustained. Balancing the different dimensions of water security has already been identified as problematic due to the different logics of how to determine what acceptable risks are. Balancing water, energy, and food security is even more challenging given the diverse definitions and interpretations of the security concepts, the absence of effective governance structures to support negotiations, and the lack of systemic governance instruments. What is required is an approach that allows diagnosing trade-offs and security problems in the WEF nexus and that is meaningful at different levels and different stages of governance processes. The ecosystem services concept may be an approach with much potential in this respect.",,"This paper argues in favour of the development of a nexus paradigm as guiding principle for design and self-organization of nexus governance systems. Such a paradigm could be anchored in addressing water, energy and food security from a nexus perspective if such a security concept is appropriately defined and operationalized.","1, 10"
1854,"Pradhan, P., et al.",2017,A Systematic Study of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,8,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In the past, a higher level of GDP and human development index (HDI) have contributed to improve health and nutritional status globally but also resulted in increasing greenhouse gas emissions and food waste ","policies need to focus on societal transformation in order to break away from these locked-in relationships for the successful implementation of the SDG agenda. Policies on minimizing trade-offs with SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production) have been suggested to be the most effective at leveraging the whole SDG agenda. However, differentiated policies at different scales and countries are needed to foster synergies and to overcome trade-offs",On average developed countries provide better human welfare but are locked-in to larger environmental and material footprints which need to be substantially reduced to achieve SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production). ,,,Strong,,,linked to SDG 12,"The paper identified synergies and trade-offs within and between SDGs based on SDG indicators using official data for 227 countries, however, without analysing directions. For a given SDG, positive correlations between indicator pairs were found to outweigh the negative ones in most countries. Among SDGs the positive and negative correlations between indicator pairs allowed for the identification of particular global patterns. SDG 1 (No poverty) has synergetic relationship with most of the other goals, whereas SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production) is the goal most commonly associated with trade-offs.",1174
1855,"Pradhan, P., et al.",2017,A Systematic Study of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,8,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In the past, a higher level of GDP and human development index (HDI) have contributed to improve health and nutritional status globally but also resulted in increasing greenhouse gas emissions and food waste ","policies need to focus on societal transformation in order to break away from these locked-in relationships for the successful implementation of the SDG agenda. Policies on minimizing trade-offs with SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production) have been suggested to be the most effective at leveraging the whole SDG agenda. However, differentiated policies at different scales and countries are needed to foster synergies and to overcome trade-offs",On average developed countries provide better human welfare but are locked-in to larger environmental and material footprints which need to be substantially reduced to achieve SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production). ,,,Strong,,,linked to SDG 12,"The paper identified synergies and trade-offs within and between SDGs based on SDG indicators using official data for 227 countries, however, without analysing directions. For a given SDG, positive correlations between indicator pairs were found to outweigh the negative ones in most countries. Among SDGs the positive and negative correlations between indicator pairs allowed for the identification of particular global patterns. SDG 1 (No poverty) has synergetic relationship with most of the other goals, whereas SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production) is the goal most commonly associated with trade-offs.",1174
1856,"Qadir, Manzoor and Mwachiro, Jacintah",2017,Towards a World Free of Untreated Wastewater,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.3,3.3,6,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Recent evidence suggests that there are significantly higher prevalence rates of water borne diseases such as gastroenteritis in areas irrigated with raw wastewater (75%) than freshwater irrigated areas (13%); with associated higher annual health costs.,"Need of effective treatment of wastewater. Monitoring the progress of implementing and achieving SDG 6.3 at the country level will require access to pertinent, high quality data and robust monitoring mechanisms, which today are lacking or embryonic in most developing countries.",,,,,,,,"Achieving 6.3 by 2030 is not enough: When the targets of SDG 6 are met in 2030, and the amount of untreated wastewater is reduced by half, millions of people in low-income countries that use wastewater for food production will remain exposed to long-term health risks in their daily lives. A shift in thinking, in policies and investment – away from reactive public health measures to effective treatment of wastewater – is a key to improving the livelihoods of these communities / If SDG 6.3 is achieved worldwide by 2030, Low income countries will still have 46% untreated wastewater, 36% in lower- middle-income countries, 31% in upper-middle-income countries, and 15% in high-income countries.",1
1857,"Qadir, Manzoor and Mwachiro, Jacintah",2017,Towards a World Free of Untreated Wastewater,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.3,12.2,6,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Water recycling and safe reuse is critically important for water quality protection and water resource conservation.,,,,,,,,,,2
1858,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.2,2.4,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, implementing appropriate sanitation-based resource recovery systems (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) will simultaneously address Target 2.4, which aims to improve food security through increased productivity and production from resilient agriculture practices that help maintain ecosystems; Target 12.2, which aims to achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources; and Target 12.5, which aims to reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.",,,,,,,,,,482
1859,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.2,4.5,6,4,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Addressing sanitation provision and environmental protection (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) in a sustainable way can also have a beneficial impact on other SDGs and targets (...) The interconnectedness of various SDGs and targets is further exemplified when implementing such sanitation systems in public schools, as this helps to achieve targets within SDG 4 such as Target 4.5, which aims to improve access to education for girls by eliminating gender disparities, and Target 4.7a, which aims to ensure safe, equal access to gender sensitive learning environments",,,,,,,,,,482
1860,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.2,12.2,6,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, implementing appropriate sanitation-based resource recovery systems (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) will simultaneously address Target 2.4, which aims to improve food security through increased productivity and production from resilient agriculture practices that help maintain ecosystems; Target 12.2, which aims to achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources; and Target 12.5, which aims to reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.",,,,,,,,,,482
1861,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.2,12.5,6,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, implementing appropriate sanitation-based resource recovery systems (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) will simultaneously address Target 2.4, which aims to improve food security through increased productivity and production from resilient agriculture practices that help maintain ecosystems; Target 12.2, which aims to achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources; and Target 12.5, which aims to reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.",,,,,,,,,,482
1862,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.3,2.4,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, implementing appropriate sanitation-based resource recovery systems (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) will simultaneously address Target 2.4, which aims to improve food security through increased productivity and production from resilient agriculture practices that help maintain ecosystems; Target 12.2, which aims to achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources; and Target 12.5, which aims to reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.",,,,,,,,,,482
1863,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.3,4.5,6,4,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Addressing sanitation provision and environmental protection (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) in a sustainable way can also have a beneficial impact on other SDGs and targets (...) The interconnectedness of various SDGs and targets is further exemplified when implementing such sanitation systems in public schools, as this helps to achieve targets within SDG 4 such as Target 4.5, which aims to improve access to education for girls by eliminating gender disparities, and Target 4.7a, which aims to ensure safe, equal access to gender sensitive learning environments",,,,,,,,,,482
1864,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.3,12.2,6,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, implementing appropriate sanitation-based resource recovery systems (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) will simultaneously address Target 2.4, which aims to improve food security through increased productivity and production from resilient agriculture practices that help maintain ecosystems; Target 12.2, which aims to achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources; and Target 12.5, which aims to reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.",,,,,,,,,,482
1865,"Qiong Zhang, Christine Prouty, Julie B. Zimmerman, James R. Mihelcic",2016,More than Target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a Resource-Scarce World,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.3,12.5,6,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, implementing appropriate sanitation-based resource recovery systems (Targets 6.2 and 6.3) will simultaneously address Target 2.4, which aims to improve food security through increased productivity and production from resilient agriculture practices that help maintain ecosystems; Target 12.2, which aims to achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources; and Target 12.5, which aims to reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.",,,,,,,,,,482
1866,"Renzaho, A.M.N., et al.",2017,Biofuel production and its impact on food security in low and middle income countries: Implications for the post-2015 sustainable development goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"biofuel production also offers significant opportunities, for example, in Sub-Saharan Africa. The evidence on current practices in biofuels feedstock farming in Sub Saharan Africa suggests that the social and economic benefits of biofuels initiatives heralded by foreign entities do not always accrue to local communities. Nonetheless, if well harnessed, biofuels represent the opportunity for the transformation of Sub Saharan Africa economies from low to middle income countries.  (second generation biofuels)","The challenge is to meaningfully address the trade-offs in order to make biofuels beneficial to all especially the rural poor farming households without distorting food and eco systems.Strong and streamlined policies are needed on feedstock farming, processing and trading. Such policies must address the rhetoric of stakeholder participation in land use management for the post 2015 sustainable development agenda. In addition, while goal 7 of the SDGs addressed the issue of ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, there is an urgent need to have specific economic, environmental, health, social, institutional, and technological targets for biofuels development as part of the SDGs.",,,,Strong,,,,This paper examines challenges associated with biofuel production and how they relate to SDGs and their targets. The main focus is on challenges associated with biofuel production not adequately addressed in the SDGs.,513
1867,"Renzaho, A.M.N., et al.",2017,Biofuel production and its impact on food security in low and middle income countries: Implications for the post-2015 sustainable development goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,12.3,7.2,12,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"minimising food wastages in both developed nations LMICs would maximise feedstocks available for second generation biofuel production and reduces stress on food supplies and agricultural expansion due to increased demand for energy, a first step to achieving the post 2015 SDGs.","The challenge is to meaningfully address the trade-offs in order to make biofuels beneficial to all especially the rural poor farming households without distorting food and eco systems.Strong and streamlined policies are needed on feedstock farming, processing and trading. Such policies must address the rhetoric of stakeholder participation in land use management for the post 2015 sustainable development agenda. In addition, while goal 7 of the SDGs addressed the issue of ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, there is an urgent need to have specific economic, environmental, health, social, institutional, and technological targets for biofuels development as part of the SDGs.","Admittedly, the most wasted foods include foods that are of primary interest to biofuel production including fresh fruit, fresh vegetables, dairy produce, meat, fish, bread, rice, and grain products. The social, economic, and environmental viability of existing food waste disposal systems as a source of biofuel have not been properly harnessed and remain underdeveloped.",,,Strong,"Reports suggest that 6.7 million tonnes of food purchased in the United Kingdom (or 33% of food purchased); 3 million tonnes of food in Australia (or 20% of food purchased), and more than 160 million tonnes of edible food available for human consumption in the United States are wasted annually",,,This paper examines challenges associated with biofuel production and how they relate to SDGs and their targets. The main focus is on challenges associated with biofuel production not adequately addressed in the SDGs.,509
1868,"Renzaho, A.M.N., et al.",2017,Biofuel production and its impact on food security in low and middle income countries: Implications for the post-2015 sustainable development goals,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,12,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"minimising food wastages in both developed nations LMICs would maximise feedstocks available for second generation biofuel production and reduces stress on food supplies and agricultural expansion due to increased demand for energy, a first step to achieving the post 2015 SDGs.","The challenge is to meaningfully address the trade-offs in order to make biofuels beneficial to all especially the rural poor farming households without distorting food and eco systems.Strong and streamlined policies are needed on feedstock farming, processing and trading. Such policies must address the rhetoric of stakeholder participation in land use management for the post 2015 sustainable development agenda. In addition, while goal 7 of the SDGs addressed the issue of ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, there is an urgent need to have specific economic, environmental, health, social, institutional, and technological targets for biofuels development as part of the SDGs.","Admittedly, the most wasted foods include foods that are of primary interest to biofuel production including fresh fruit, fresh vegetables, dairy produce, meat, fish, bread, rice, and grain products. The social, economic, and environmental viability of existing food waste disposal systems as a source of biofuel have not been properly harnessed and remain underdeveloped.",,,Strong,"Reports suggest that 6.7 million tonnes of food purchased in the United Kingdom (or 33% of food purchased); 3 million tonnes of food in Australia (or 20% of food purchased), and more than 160 million tonnes of edible food available for human consumption in the United States are wasted annually",,,This paper examines challenges associated with biofuel production and how they relate to SDGs and their targets. The main focus is on challenges associated with biofuel production not adequately addressed in the SDGs.,509
1869,"Reyers, B., et al.",2017,Essential Variables help to focus Sustainable Development Goals monitoring,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,2,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Similarly the food transition involves meeting food security (SDG 2), health outcomes (SDG 3) whilst improving water and land use sustainability (SDGs 2, 6, 15), including reducing polluting run off into inland waters and oceans (SDG 2, 14).","transition itself will be promoted by societal changes related to food choice, reducing food waste, and access to (healthy) food. All these will be affected by food pricing but also by meta-narratives around diets and health that may affect shifts to or from meat dominated diets - suggesting other ESDGVs to track the effects of changing awareness and behaviour on diet-health links in different countries and cultures",,,,Strong,"further improving SDGs 2, 6, 15, 14","suggests ESDGVs of nutrient yields, land use change, flows of water, P and N inputs, and food security and food access as some of the key system variables",,"The purpose of the paper is to review the potential for the Essential Variables approach to limit the tendency towards proliferation in monitoring for the SDGs and refocus effort on a coordinated system. Also, the transdisciplinary research agenda that would be required to support such a development is identified.",101
1870,"Reyers, B., et al.",2017,Essential Variables help to focus Sustainable Development Goals monitoring,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The energy transition depends on coordinating the delivery of ‘energy for all’ (SDG 7) with limiting emissions of CO2 (SDG 13).,"transformational changes needed in the energy system will not be achieved without paying attention to the social systems and their biophysical and cultural components, leading to potential ESDGVs on the extent of regulatory changes, (renewables) infrastructure and investments, and changes in norms around consumption and distribution",,,,Strong,,"Essential SDG Variables (ESDGVs) on energy supply, sources and demand, carbon emissions, and resultant economic outputs would be relevant to tracking energy and carbon intensity. Further ESDGVs on household energy access and source would track universal access (and health) trends in priority regions",,"The purpose of the paper is to review the potential for the Essential Variables approach to limit the tendency towards proliferation in monitoring for the SDGs and refocus effort on a coordinated system. Also, the transdisciplinary research agenda that would be required to support such a development is identified.",101
1871,"Reyers, B., et al.",2017,Essential Variables help to focus Sustainable Development Goals monitoring,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.19,17.14,17,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"a well formulated set of ESDGVs could form the basis for a Common Standard for reporting across the private and public sectors, locally to globally, that helps to standardise our understanding of, and response to, progress on sustainable development",research needed to catalyse the definition of ESDGVs would also help to crystallise the priorities of these adaptive governance processes towards a more focused monitoring and learning system driving transformation whilst coordinating diverse policy interests,"The UN 2030 Agenda is intended to have a reflective learning cycle supported by the GSDR and the deliberations of the High-Level Political Forum of all member states over the life time of the SDGs, to provide an adaptive governance approach to this vital global initiative. Key to such deliberations is a more profound framing of how the cultural system is dynamically linked to material society in the context of SDGs.",,,Strong,,,,"The purpose of the paper is to review the potential for the Essential Variables approach to limit the tendency towards proliferation in monitoring for the SDGs and refocus effort on a coordinated system. Also, the transdisciplinary research agenda that would be required to support such a development is identified.",103
1872,"Ringler, C., et al.",2013,"The nexus across water, energy, land and food (WELF): potential for improved resource use efficiency?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Water, land and energy resources are all crucial contributors to food security. As a result of growing natural resource scarcity, the inter-connectedness of these sectors has become more apparent, as evidenced by growing tradeoffs and the incipient search for cross-sector efficiencies. Both direct and indirect drivers of change, such as climate change, natural resource endowment, demographics and science and technology policies affect these linkages, shaping final development and sustainability outcomes, including food and nutrition security, improved health, access to modern forms of energy, and environmental quality.  ","Proactive engagement by the water, energy, land and food (WELF) sectors with important roles for national governments and international bodies is required to holistically assess and promote investment options that co-balance benefits across different sectors.",,,,Strong,"irrigated agriculture remains the major user of freshwater withdrawals worldwide, accounting for about 70 percent of global withdrawals, 90 percent of consumptive use and contributing to 40 percent of total grain production  cereal trade from water-abundant to water-deficit areas is expected to grow to 38 percent by 2025 from just 23 percent in 1995, because food demand growth outstrips food production growth in water-deficit areas","Nexus assessments need to consider both human well-being and environmental outcomes, that is, the environment has to have a seat at the table’ for nexus analyses. Outcomes must also be evaluated for the poor, whose well-being is tightly interrelated but often in conflict with maintaining environmental integrity. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a globally significant test for the implementation of nexus thinking. Recommendations are: develop an enabling environment to enhance equity in natural resource access, abandon silo thinking and vested interests, provide relevant and quantified information and tools, develop and disseminate resource-use efficient technologies for enhanced sustainability across the nexus, reduce distortionary subsidies, optimize market and trade solutions.",,,617
1873,"Ringler, C., et al.",2013,"The nexus across water, energy, land and food (WELF): potential for improved resource use efficiency?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,6,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The energy-water and water-energy nexuses are also increasingly studied, as both resources are becoming  scarcer and thus have started to influence and affect each other’s developments",,"water has become increasingly essential for the development of energy. According to the International Energy Agency, water needs for energy production are projected to grow at twice the rate of energy demand. Although most of this water is not consumed, but returned to the water source, these withdrawals impact ecosystems and the water resources of a region. At the same time, growing water scarcity is increasingly affecting energy production, curtailing operations due to consumptive water use, as from irrigation.",,,Strong,"Global freshwater withdrawals for energy production were estimated at 583 km3 in 2010 and consumption at 66 km3; by 2035, withdrawals are expected to grow to 700 km3 but consumption levels to more than 120 km3, an increase of 85 percent, largely due to continued biofuel development. Moreover, hydropower today accounts for about 20 percent of total energy production and thermoelectric power plants account for around 40 percent of the freshwater withdrawn every year in Europe and the United States","Nexus assessments need to consider both human well-being and environmental outcomes, that is, the environment has to have a seat at the table’ for nexus analyses. Outcomes must also be evaluated for the poor, whose well-being is tightly interrelated but often in conflict with maintaining environmental integrity. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a globally significant test for the implementation of nexus thinking. Recommendations are: develop an enabling environment to enhance equity in natural resource access, abandon silo thinking and vested interests, provide relevant and quantified information and tools, develop and disseminate resource-use efficient technologies for enhanced sustainability across the nexus, reduce distortionary subsidies, optimize market and trade solutions.",,,619
1874,"Ringler, C., et al.",2013,"The nexus across water, energy, land and food (WELF): potential for improved resource use efficiency?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Water, land and energy resources are all crucial contributors to food security. As a result of growing natural resource scarcity, the inter-connectedness of these sectors has become more apparent, as evidenced by growing tradeoffs and the incipient search for cross-sector efficiencies. Both direct and indirect drivers of change, such as climate change, natural resource endowment, demographics and science and technology policies affect these linkages, shaping final development and sustainability outcomes, including food and nutrition security, improved health, access to modern forms of energy, and environmental quality.  ","Proactive engagement by the water, energy, land and food (WELF) sectors with important roles for national governments and international bodies is required to holistically assess and promote investment options that co-balance benefits across different sectors.","Energy inputs for food production include not only pumping of irrigation water, but also mechanization, fertilizer production, postharvest processing, and transportation. ",,,Strong,"Conventional agricultural production in the United States uses approximately 1000 liters of fossil energy (oil) per hectare, divided approximately equally among petroleum-based fertilizers, mechanization, and other activities and inputs, such as pesticides. ","Nexus assessments need to consider both human well-being and environmental outcomes, that is, the environment has to have a seat at the table’ for nexus analyses. Outcomes must also be evaluated for the poor, whose well-being is tightly interrelated but often in conflict with maintaining environmental integrity. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a globally significant test for the implementation of nexus thinking. Recommendations are: develop an enabling environment to enhance equity in natural resource access, abandon silo thinking and vested interests, provide relevant and quantified information and tools, develop and disseminate resource-use efficient technologies for enhanced sustainability across the nexus, reduce distortionary subsidies, optimize market and trade solutions.","The impacts of chemical fertilizers often spread to water systems when excessive amounts of fertilizer are applied and the nutrients enter streams and rivers and find their ways to lakes and deltas where they result in eutrophication and other large adverse impacts on aquatic habitats. The other side of the coin is that energy-driven agricultural intensification has greatly reduced the need for new cropland and deforestation, by achieving much higher agricultural productivity per unit of land, water, labor and capital.",,617
1875,"Ringler, C., et al.",2013,"The nexus across water, energy, land and food (WELF): potential for improved resource use efficiency?",Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,7,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The energy-water and water-energy nexuses are also increasingly studied, as both resources are becoming  scarcer and thus have started to influence and affect each other’s developments",,"Energy has become essential for the development and use of water resources — ranging from desalination, mostly for drinking water, to groundwater pumping for domestic, industrial and particularly irrigation uses. Global annual groundwater withdrawals are large and increasing, accounting for 43 percent or more of global irrigation use, in large part due to the availability of smaller, cheaper pump sets and tubewell technology ",,,Strong,,"Nexus assessments need to consider both human well-being and environmental outcomes, that is, the environment has to have a seat at the table’ for nexus analyses. Outcomes must also be evaluated for the poor, whose well-being is tightly interrelated but often in conflict with maintaining environmental integrity. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a globally significant test for the implementation of nexus thinking. Recommendations are: develop an enabling environment to enhance equity in natural resource access, abandon silo thinking and vested interests, provide relevant and quantified information and tools, develop and disseminate resource-use efficient technologies for enhanced sustainability across the nexus, reduce distortionary subsidies, optimize market and trade solutions.",,,619
