,Author,Year,Title,Type,Geographical place,Spatial scale,"If nation state or below, define type of country",Time scale,From target,To target,From SDG,To SDG ,ICSU scale assessment,Score,Quality,Key insight,Notes on the role of governance / policy (if mentioned) and the social context,Describe the tradeoffs / Co-benefit of the interaction,Winning stakeholders,Losing stakeholder,is there a governance dependency?,Key facts and figures,"Describe measures taken to mitigate trade-offs or maximise co-benefits; what are the outcomes, experiences and lessons learnt","Mentions of further systemic effects (feedback loops, cascadeing effects)",Further material:,p.
1340,"Figueroa, M.J., and S.K. Ribeiro",2013,Energy for road passenger transport and sustainable development: assessing policies and goals interactions being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.2,7.3,11,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Providing efficient, low-carbon and affordable transportation services that meet the mobility needs of the population and attend to energy for sustainable development principles continues to be the principal and most difficult transport challenge globally. Development that is sustainable requires an operational, efficient and safe transportation system fueled by clean, lowcarbon, secure and affordable energy. The energy used in road passenger transport enables social and economic development and is the target of interventions to fight pressing urban environmental problems, energy security concerns and dangerous climate change","Many recent studies emphasize that policies that lead transport in a low-carbon pathway need to be made compatible with goals and principles for sustainable development [10–12]. In addition, a number of global scenario [13–19] and comparative policy studies [20,21] have recently examined the type of policies that have greater potential to help achieve a transition of the global transport system into a low-carbon system. Among these global scenario studies the Global Energy Assessment (GEA) normatively examined possible future energy pathways for a radical transformation of the present energy system that meets sustainable development goals, with regards to economic development, urban development equity, health and environmental protection, green house gas emissions, and energy security. ",,,,Strong,"The global transport sector is responsible for 28% of the total final energy demand and the majority of the energy used in transportation — 70% — is utilized in the movement of passengers and goods on roads  The total energy use for passenger and freight transportation is projected to increase for all transport modes and all world regions by 2050. Despite the last decade’s global recession and the resulting reduction of freight and passenger volumes in all  modes, the long-term transport demand is expected to increase so long as the global economy continues to receive the positive feedbacks of international travel and trade  Currently, the world’s vehicle fleet amounts to around 800 million and it is expected to have surpassed 1.2 billion by 2050 [18]. The increases in motorization that are taking a fast pace in growing economies such as China, India and Brazil, are departing from low resent levels [31,32]. Rapid urbanization and mass motorization put further pressure to the more limited growth in supply of infrastructure and services rising urban social, and equity unsustainable con- ditions. ","This review explores a systematic approach to describe interactions documented in the literature, between policies targeting energy use in road passenger transport to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development goals. Essential, uncertain and limited interactions are mapped out as a result, their overview indicates that a full reconciliation between these policies and sustainability goals is not always attainable. The careful alignment and contextual examination of interactions between measures and goals as exemplified in this approach can help inform practical transport energy policy that better match an agenda for sustainable development.",contributing to 13,"This paper offered a systematic approach to assess the interaction of policies for energy in transport with sustainability principles expressed with the Millennium Goals, and reaffirmed in Rio+20 and other major assessment studies such as the Global Energy ssessment. Decision-makers can find practical value in the knowledge it offers to understand interactions and the possibility of multiple vistas. The approach has also limits: it is a resource intensive exercise that requires extensive documentation and up-to-date contextual knowledge, capabilities to gather facts and to explain the observed interactions. The approach can be potentially susceptible to misuse biasing results to favor a particular decision. ","152, 159"
1341,"Figueroa, M.J., and S.K. Ribeiro",2013,Energy for road passenger transport and sustainable development: assessing policies and goals interactions being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,11.2,12.4,11,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Road passenger transport and the rapid and long range distance movement of passengers are facilitated by a higher ratio of vehicles to users, easy access to fuel markets, affordable prices, and the high energy intensity that characterize fossil fuels. The implications in terms of total energy consumption, air pollution, traffic congestion and safety, noise, ecosystem impacts and greenhouse gas emissions are large. Ecosystem impacts are largely associated to the expansion of urban and transport systems land consuming patterns (sprawl) [33] that intensify the travel distance and reliance on personal motorized modes for transport. Further ecosystem impacts are attributed to the devel- opment of alternative fuels such in the case of development of biofuels","Many recent studies emphasize that policies that lead transport in a low-carbon pathway need to be made compatible with goals and principles for sustainable development [10–12]. In addition, a number of global scenario [13–19] and comparative policy studies [20,21] have recently examined the type of policies that have greater potential to help achieve a transition of the global transport system into a low-carbon system. Among these global scenario studies the Global Energy Assessment (GEA) normatively examined possible future energy pathways for a radical transformation of the present energy system that meets sustainable development goals, with regards to economic development, urban development equity, health and environmental protection, green house gas emissions, and energy security. ",,,,Strong,"The global transport sector is responsible for 28% of the total final energy demand and the majority of the energy used in transportation — 70% — is utilized in the movement of passengers and goods on roads  The total energy use for passenger and freight transportation is projected to increase for all transport modes and all world regions by 2050. Despite the last decade’s global recession and the resulting reduction of freight and passenger volumes in all  modes, the long-term transport demand is expected to increase so long as the global economy continues to receive the positive feedbacks of international travel and trade  Currently, the world’s vehicle fleet amounts to around 800 million and it is expected to have surpassed 1.2 billion by 2050 [18]. The increases in motorization that are taking a fast pace in growing economies such as China, India and Brazil, are departing from low resent levels [31,32]. Rapid urbanization and mass motorization put further pressure to the more limited growth in supply of infrastructure and services rising urban social, and equity unsustainable con- ditions. ","This review explores a systematic approach to describe interactions documented in the literature, between policies targeting energy use in road passenger transport to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development goals. Essential, uncertain and limited interactions are mapped out as a result, their overview indicates that a full reconciliation between these policies and sustainability goals is not always attainable. The careful alignment and contextual examination of interactions between measures and goals as exemplified in this approach can help inform practical transport energy policy that better match an agenda for sustainable development.",,"This paper offered a systematic approach to assess the interaction of policies for energy in transport with sustainability principles expressed with the Millennium Goals, and reaffirmed in Rio+20 and other major assessment studies such as the Global Energy ssessment. Decision-makers can find practical value in the knowledge it offers to understand interactions and the possibility of multiple vistas. The approach has also limits: it is a resource intensive exercise that requires extensive documentation and up-to-date contextual knowledge, capabilities to gather facts and to explain the observed interactions. The approach can be potentially susceptible to misuse biasing results to favor a particular decision. ",155
1342,"Figueroa, M.J., and S.K. Ribeiro",2013,Energy for road passenger transport and sustainable development: assessing policies and goals interactions being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,11,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"increasing greenhouse gas emissions from transport, presently, alternative fuels account for a small market penetration of the global passenger motor vehicle market; therefore, transport is one of the human activities most tightly related to contributions of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions","Many recent studies emphasize that policies that lead transport in a low-carbon pathway need to be made compatible with goals and principles for sustainable development [10–12]. In addition, a number of global scenario [13–19] and comparative policy studies [20,21] have recently examined the type of policies that have greater potential to help achieve a transition of the global transport system into a low-carbon system. Among these global scenario studies the Global Energy Assessment (GEA) normatively examined possible future energy pathways for a radical transformation of the present energy system that meets sustainable development goals, with regards to economic development, urban development equity, health and environmental protection, green house gas emissions, and energy security. ",,,,Strong,"The global transport sector is responsible for 28% of the total final energy demand and the majority of the energy used in transportation — 70% — is utilized in the movement of passengers and goods on roads  The total energy use for passenger and freight transportation is projected to increase for all transport modes and all world regions by 2050. Despite the last decade’s global recession and the resulting reduction of freight and passenger volumes in all  modes, the long-term transport demand is expected to increase so long as the global economy continues to receive the positive feedbacks of international travel and trade  Currently, the world’s vehicle fleet amounts to around 800 million and it is expected to have surpassed 1.2 billion by 2050 [18]. The increases in motorization that are taking a fast pace in growing economies such as China, India and Brazil, are departing from low resent levels [31,32]. Rapid urbanization and mass motorization put further pressure to the more limited growth in supply of infrastructure and services rising urban social, and equity unsustainable con- ditions. ","This review explores a systematic approach to describe interactions documented in the literature, between policies targeting energy use in road passenger transport to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development goals. Essential, uncertain and limited interactions are mapped out as a result, their overview indicates that a full reconciliation between these policies and sustainability goals is not always attainable. The careful alignment and contextual examination of interactions between measures and goals as exemplified in this approach can help inform practical transport energy policy that better match an agenda for sustainable development.",,"This paper offered a systematic approach to assess the interaction of policies for energy in transport with sustainability principles expressed with the Millennium Goals, and reaffirmed in Rio+20 and other major assessment studies such as the Global Energy ssessment. Decision-makers can find practical value in the knowledge it offers to understand interactions and the possibility of multiple vistas. The approach has also limits: it is a resource intensive exercise that requires extensive documentation and up-to-date contextual knowledge, capabilities to gather facts and to explain the observed interactions. The approach can be potentially susceptible to misuse biasing results to favor a particular decision. ",155
1343,"Figueroa, M.J., and S.K. Ribeiro",2013,Energy for road passenger transport and sustainable development: assessing policies and goals interactions being and the Italian BES framework,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,11,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Road passenger transport and the rapid and long range distance movement of passengers are facilitated by a higher ratio of vehicles to users, easy access to fuel markets, affordable prices, and the high energy intensity that characterize fossil fuels. The implications in terms of total energy consumption, air pollution, traffic congestion and safety, noise, ecosystem impacts and greenhouse gas emissions are large. Ecosystem impacts are largely associated to the expansion of urban and transport systems land consuming patterns (sprawl) [33] that intensify the travel distance and reliance on personal motorized modes for transport. Further ecosystem impacts are attributed to the development of alternative fuels such in the case of development of biofuels","Many recent studies emphasize that policies that lead transport in a low-carbon pathway need to be made compatible with goals and principles for sustainable development [10–12]. In addition, a number of global scenario [13–19] and comparative policy studies [20,21] have recently examined the type of policies that have greater potential to help achieve a transition of the global transport system into a low-carbon system. Among these global scenario studies the Global Energy Assessment (GEA) normatively examined possible future energy pathways for a radical transformation of the present energy system that meets sustainable development goals, with regards to economic development, urban development equity, health and environmental protection, green house gas emissions, and energy security. ",,,,Strong,"The global transport sector is responsible for 28% of the total final energy demand and the majority of the energy used in transportation — 70% — is utilized in the movement of passengers and goods on roads  The total energy use for passenger and freight transportation is projected to increase for all transport modes and all world regions by 2050. Despite the last decade’s global recession and the resulting reduction of freight and passenger volumes in all  modes, the long-term transport demand is expected to increase so long as the global economy continues to receive the positive feedbacks of international travel and trade  Currently, the world’s vehicle fleet amounts to around 800 million and it is expected to have surpassed 1.2 billion by 2050 [18]. The increases in motorization that are taking a fast pace in growing economies such as China, India and Brazil, are departing from low resent levels [31,32]. Rapid urbanization and mass motorization put further pressure to the more limited growth in supply of infrastructure and services rising urban social, and equity unsustainable con- ditions. ","This review explores a systematic approach to describe interactions documented in the literature, between policies targeting energy use in road passenger transport to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development goals. Essential, uncertain and limited interactions are mapped out as a result, their overview indicates that a full reconciliation between these policies and sustainability goals is not always attainable. The careful alignment and contextual examination of interactions between measures and goals as exemplified in this approach can help inform practical transport energy policy that better match an agenda for sustainable development.",,"This paper offered a systematic approach to assess the interaction of policies for energy in transport with sustainability principles expressed with the Millennium Goals, and reaffirmed in Rio+20 and other major assessment studies such as the Global Energy ssessment. Decision-makers can find practical value in the knowledge it offers to understand interactions and the possibility of multiple vistas. The approach has also limits: it is a resource intensive exercise that requires extensive documentation and up-to-date contextual knowledge, capabilities to gather facts and to explain the observed interactions. The approach can be potentially susceptible to misuse biasing results to favor a particular decision. ",155
1344,"Finlay, J.E., et al.",2017,"Adolescent Fertility and Child Health: The Interaction of Maternal Age, Parity and Birth Intervals in Determining Child Health Outcomes",Academic-peer reviewed,Sub-Saharan Africa,Regional,,,3.7,3.2,3,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The findings in this paper lead to important policy recommendations, particularly for developing effective policies to improve adolescent sexual and reproductive health and avert poor child health outcomes to teen mothers in sub-Saharan Africa. First-born children to teen mothers may survive, but they are at a high risk of stunting.","The findings in this paper lead to important policy recommendations, particularly for developing effective policies to improve adolescent sexual and reproductive health and avert poor child health outcomes to teen mothers in sub-Saharan Africa. First-born children to teen mothers may survive, but they are at a high risk of stunting. Thus post-partum support for teen mothers for effective breastfeeding and child nutrition would help these mothers and children. The issue of high parity for young women under age 20 is confounded by short spacing (parity 2), and thus helping young mothers space their births will improve child survival outcomes. For adolescent sexual and reproductive health, bringing an emphasis to birth intervals – and not just timing of the first birth – is important for young mothers. For adolescents, there is often a policy emphasis on staying in school and delaying first birth, and while this is important, it should not overshadow the need for effective support for higher parity teen mothers and their children.","The findings in this paper lead to important policy recommendations, particularly for developing effective policies to improve adolescent sexual and reproductive health and avert poor child health outcomes to teen mothers in sub-Saharan Africa. First-born children to teen mothers may survive, but they are at a high risk of stunting. Thus post-partum support for teen mothers for effective breastfeeding and child nutrition would help these mothers and children. The issue of high parity for young women under age 20 is confounded by short spacing (parity 2), and thus helping young mothers space their births will improve child survival outcomes. For adolescent sexual and reproductive health, bringing an emphasis to birth intervals – and not just timing of the first birth – is important for young mothers. For adolescents, there is often a policy emphasis on staying in school and delaying first birth, and while this is important, it should not overshadow the need for effective support for higher parity teen mothers and their children.",,,Strong,"Of the 231,037 children in the mortality sample, 11,804 children died before the age of 12 months (5.2%; 95% CI: 5.1-5.3). Infant mortality rate was highest among children born to mothers aged 15-17 (7.3%; 95% CI: 6.8-7.7), and lowest for children born to women ages 25-29 (4.5%; 95% CI: 4.3-4.7). Over half of the children who died were third or higher order births. Infant mortality was significantly higher for boys (5.7%; 95% CI: 5.6-5.9) than girls (4.7%; 95% CI: 4.5- 4.8). Of the children who died, 71.1% were born to women with no education. Similarly, there is a clear wealth gradient, with 24.6% of the children who died being from households in the lowest wealth quintile, and 13.5% from households in the highest wealth quintile  Within parity, 7.7% of first born children of mothers 15-17 years old die, 5.0% to 25-29 year olds die, and 6.7% to 30-39 year olds die. For the third-born children, 9.7% to the 15-17 year old mothers die, 4.6% to the 25- 29 year olds die, and 5.3% to the 30-39 year olds die. We also see that the absolute prevalence of stunting decreases with the age of the mother, and that the prevalence of stunting is highest across all age groups for higher parity children",see column 15,,"paper examines the association of maternal age with child health outcomes, then by considering the moderating effect of parity, and thirdly by accounting for the confounding of birth intervals in the maternal age-child health relationship. We consider infant mortality and childhood stunting outcomes to contrast mortality and morbidity effects.",26
1345,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,13.1,2.1,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Even keeping temperature rise to below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels, some regions will experience increased risks of rising sea levels, forest fires, and water and food insecurity and may see increases in extreme heat, disease, and weather events: Importance of climate resilience.",,,,,,,,,,13
1346,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,13.1,6.1,13,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Even keeping temperature rise to below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels, some regions will experience increased risks of rising sea levels, forest fires, and water and food insecurity and may see increases in extreme heat, disease, and weather events: Importance of climate resilience.",,,,,,,,,,13
1347,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,13.2,8.1,13,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Carbon pricing is an important policy tool that would create substantial revenues amounting to potentially several percent of GDP. Removing fossil fuels from the world economy to enable world development below 2 °C is feasible. We have the technologies and policy instruments to succeed,,,,,,"Unmitigated climate change is likely to slow the global economy. The estimated costs range from 2-10% of GDP 46 by 2100 to 23% of GDP 47 (global average across countries). On the other hand, recent estimates of the cost of removing fossil fuels from the global economy if all mitigation technologies are available and nations cooperate come in at 1-3% of global GDP by 2030 and around 5% by 2100. This comes with significant added benefits: long-term energy security, reduced pollution, improved health, and greater socio-economic competitiveness; See Figure 9. Summary of incentives for domestic carbon pricing by region: annual per-capita revenues from a carbon price of US$ 30/tCO 2 (x-axis), avoided climate damages per avoided tCO 2 (y-axis), and health co-benefits (area of circles);",,,,12
1348,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,13,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,the impacts of changing climate are decreasing food security and increasing the risks of disease and heat stress.,,,,,,a recent estimate suggests that crop-yield losses could be 3-7% per degree of warming,,13 > 2 > 3,,7
1349,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,13,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,the impacts of changing climate are decreasing food security and increasing the risks of disease and heat stress.,,,,,,"Research suggests that rising temperatures have already increased the risk of heat-related death and illness. For example, analysis suggests that human-caused climate change at least doubled the likelihood of the 2003 European heatwave 27 , which caused up to 70,000 premature deaths. And local changes in temperature and rainfall have altered the distribution of some water-borne illnesses and disease vectors and have caused reduced food production in some vulnerable populations. Climate-altering air pollutants such as black carbon and tropospheric ozone also have substantial, direct, and negative effects on human health 30. In fact, these pollutants are among the largest health-risk factors globally; See Figure 6. The links between greenhouse gas emissions, Earth-system change and public health are clear. Top: Health effects of heatwaves. 125 million more vulnerable people over the age of 65 years were exposed to heatwaves in 2016 than in 2000. Middle: Global labour capacity of rural labourers has fallen by 5·3% from 2000 to 2016 due to rising temperatures and the inability to work when it's too hot. Bottom: Spread of diseases due to changing climatic conditions. In countries where dengue is endemic, the capacity for one of the main mosquitoes to transmit dengue fever has increased globally since 1950 by 9·5% (Watts et al. 2017).",,,,"7, 8"
1350,Future Earth and the Earth League,2017,The 10 Science 'Must Knows' on Climate Change,Global Assessment,,Global,,,15.2,13.2,15,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Deforestation and agriculture are weakening land carbon sinks: Implies importance of sustainable land use,,,,,,,,,,2
1351,"Gain, A.K., et al.",2015,The water-energy-food (WEF) security nexus: the policy perspective of Bangladesh.,Academic-peer reviewed,Bangladesh,National,,,,,2,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Water, energy and food resources are crucial to drive economic growth and pull several million remaining people out of poverty in Bangladesh. The water, energy and water policies consider security concerns of these resources without considering their integration. Without a nexus perspective, the government has missed many opportunities for coordinating resources management. Given growing pressures on water, energy and food resources, planners and decision-makers in Bangladesh may find this study useful for integrating and implementing national policy through a WEF approach.","the WEF nexus is not yet recognized in the policy documents of Bangladesh, while conflicts over these resources are growing. In order to reduce this contestation, ‘policy integration’ is recommended for implementing key policies in the WEF nexus",,,,Strong,"Of all natural resources, water, food and energy are the most critical to sustaining life. Given the rise in the human population, economic development and the inevitable consequences of climate change, the challenges for achieving secure and sustainable supplies of water, energy and food are onerous. A recent study by Parry (2012) suggests meeting global human demands over the next 20 years will require 50% more food, 50% more energy and 30% more water.  With over 150 million people in an area of less than 150,000 km2, Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. Although its economy has grown rapidly in recent years, agriculture dominates employment, with more than 70% of the population involved directly or indirectly in agricultural activities. The share of agriculture in gross domestic product (GDP), however, has fallen below 20% as service sectors have grown to employ 52% of the workforce. The remaining 28% are in the industrial sector (MoEF, 2012). Bangladesh’s energy infrastructure is quite small, it cannot meet domestic demand and is poorly managed. High prices for petroleum products have further handicapped the generation of electricity and put industrial production as well as other sectors at risk. While the share of people in poverty has declined sharply from close to 60% in the early 1990s to 40% in 2005 and to 32% in 2010 (MoEF, 2012), the absolute number of poor people is still high at around 50 million. Despite the achievement of near selfsufficiency in food grain production in recent years, malnutrition remains widespread in the country. Moreover, Bangladesh is facing growing challenges in managing water demand, supplying safe drinking water, improving water quality, reversing the decline of fisheries and protecting natural ecosystems, in particular coastal wetlands and marshes. The impact of climate change on Bangladesh is expected to be particularly strong because of climatic hazards specific to the region, including Himalayan glacier melt, monsoon climate fluctuations and sea level rise (Gain, Apel, Renaud, & Giupponi, 2013b; Mirza, 2011). Unplanned economic development, significant population pressure, land-use change, upstream water withdrawal and urbanization also directly affect water, energy and food resources.",,2 -> 6 2 -> 7 6 -> 2 6 -> 7 7 -> 2 7 -> 6,objective of this article is to provide an assessment of the WEF  Under SDG 17 mainly target 17.14 nexus approaches to investigate the extent of ‘integration’ achieved in the national policy of Bangladesh.,906
1352,"Gain, A.K., et al.",2015,The water-energy-food (WEF) security nexus: the policy perspective of Bangladesh.,Academic-peer reviewed,Bangladesh,National,,,,,6,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Water, energy and food resources are crucial to drive economic growth and pull several million remaining people out of poverty in Bangladesh. The water, energy and water policies consider security concerns of these resources without considering their integration. Without a nexus perspective, the government has missed many opportunities for coordinating resources management. Given growing pressures on water, energy and food resources, planners and decision-makers in Bangladesh may find this study useful for integrating and implementing national policy through a WEF approach.","the WEF nexus is not yet recognized in the policy documents of Bangladesh, while conflicts over these resources are growing. In order to reduce this contestation, ‘policy integration’ is recommended for implementing key policies in the WEF nexus ",,,,Strong,"Of all natural resources, water, food and energy are the most critical to sustaining life. Given the rise in the human population, economic development and the inevitable consequences of climate change, the challenges for achieving secure and sustainable supplies of water, energy and food are onerous. A recent study by Parry (2012) suggests meeting global human demands over the next 20 years will require 50% more food, 50% more energy and 30% more water.  With over 150 million people in an area of less than 150,000 km2, Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. Although its economy has grown rapidly in recent years, agriculture dominates employment, with more than 70% of the population involved directly or indirectly in agricultural activities. The share of agriculture in gross domestic product (GDP), however, has fallen below 20% as service sectors have grown to employ 52% of the workforce. The remaining 28% are in the industrial sector (MoEF, 2012). Bangladesh’s energy infrastructure is quite small, it cannot meet domestic demand and is poorly managed. High prices for petroleum products have further handicapped the generation of electricity and put industrial production as well as other sectors at risk. While the share of people in poverty has declined sharply from close to 60% in the early 1990s to 40% in 2005 and to 32% in 2010 (MoEF, 2012), the absolute number of poor people is still high at around 50 million. Despite the achievement of near selfsufficiency in food grain production in recent years, malnutrition remains widespread in the country. Moreover, Bangladesh is facing growing challenges in managing water demand, supplying safe drinking water, improving water quality, reversing the decline of fisheries and protecting natural ecosystems, in particular coastal wetlands and marshes. The impact of climate change on Bangladesh is expected to be particularly strong because of climatic hazards specific to the region, including Himalayan glacier melt, monsoon climate fluctuations and sea level rise (Gain, Apel, Renaud, & Giupponi, 2013b; Mirza, 2011). Unplanned economic development, significant population pressure, land-use change, upstream water withdrawal and urbanization also directly affect water, energy and food resources.",,2 -> 6 2 -> 7 6 -> 2 6 -> 7 7 -> 2 7 -> 6,objective of this article is to provide an assessment of the WEF  Under SDG 17 mainly target 17.14 nexus approaches to investigate the extent of ‘integration’ achieved in the national policy of Bangladesh.,906
1353,"Gain, A.K., et al.",2015,The water-energy-food (WEF) security nexus: the policy perspective of Bangladesh.,Academic-peer reviewed,Bangladesh,National,,,,,7,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Water, energy and food resources are crucial to drive economic growth and pull several million remaining people out of poverty in Bangladesh. The water, energy and water policies consider security concerns of these resources without considering their integration. Without a nexus perspective, the government has missed many opportunities for coordinating resources management. Given growing pressures on water, energy and food resources, planners and decision-makers in Bangladesh may find this study useful for integrating and implementing national policy through a WEF approach.","the WEF nexus is not yet recognized in the policy documents of Bangladesh, while conflicts over these resources are growing. In order to reduce this contestation, ‘policy integration’ is recommended for implementing key policies in the WEF nexus",,,,Strong,"Of all natural resources, water, food and energy are the most critical to sustaining life. Given the rise in the human population, economic development and the inevitable consequences of climate change, the challenges for achieving secure and sustainable supplies of water, energy and food are onerous. A recent study by Parry (2012) suggests meeting global human demands over the next 20 years will require 50% more food, 50% more energy and 30% more water.  With over 150 million people in an area of less than 150,000 km2, Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. Although its economy has grown rapidly in recent years, agriculture dominates employment, with more than 70% of the population involved directly or indirectly in agricultural activities. The share of agriculture in gross domestic product (GDP), however, has fallen below 20% as service sectors have grown to employ 52% of the workforce. The remaining 28% are in the industrial sector (MoEF, 2012). Bangladesh’s energy infrastructure is quite small, it cannot meet domestic demand and is poorly managed. High prices for petroleum products have further handicapped the generation of electricity and put industrial production as well as other sectors at risk. While the share of people in poverty has declined sharply from close to 60% in the early 1990s to 40% in 2005 and to 32% in 2010 (MoEF, 2012), the absolute number of poor people is still high at around 50 million. Despite the achievement of near selfsufficiency in food grain production in recent years, malnutrition remains widespread in the country. Moreover, Bangladesh is facing growing challenges in managing water demand, supplying safe drinking water, improving water quality, reversing the decline of fisheries and protecting natural ecosystems, in particular coastal wetlands and marshes. The impact of climate change on Bangladesh is expected to be particularly strong because of climatic hazards specific to the region, including Himalayan glacier melt, monsoon climate fluctuations and sea level rise (Gain, Apel, Renaud, & Giupponi, 2013b; Mirza, 2011). Unplanned economic development, significant population pressure, land-use change, upstream water withdrawal and urbanization also directly affect water, energy and food resources.",,2 -> 6 2 -> 7 6 -> 2 6 -> 7 7 -> 2 7 -> 6,objective of this article is to provide an assessment of the WEF  Under SDG 17 mainly target 17.14 nexus approaches to investigate the extent of ‘integration’ achieved in the national policy of Bangladesh.,906
1354,"Gerald G. Singha, Andrés M. Cisneros-Montemayor, Wilf Swartz, William Cheung, J. Adam Guy, Tiff-Annie Kenny, Chris J. McOwen, Rebecca Asch, Jan Laurens Geffert, Colette C.C. Wabnitz, Rashid Sumaila, Quentin Hanich, Yoshitaka Ota",2017,A rapid assessment of co-benefits and trade-offs among Sustainable Development Goals,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.5,14.2,14,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, establishing effective marine protected areas (Target 14.5) may contribute to ecosystem restoration (Targets 14.2 and 15.5)",,,,,,,,,,2
1355,"Gerald G. Singha, Andrés M. Cisneros-Montemayor, Wilf Swartz, William Cheung, J. Adam Guy, Tiff-Annie Kenny, Chris J. McOwen, Rebecca Asch, Jan Laurens Geffert, Colette C.C. Wabnitz, Rashid Sumaila, Quentin Hanich, Yoshitaka Ota",2017,A rapid assessment of co-benefits and trade-offs among Sustainable Development Goals,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,14.5,15.5,14,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For example, establishing effective marine protected areas (Target 14.5) may contribute to ecosystem restoration (Targets 14.2 and 15.5)",,,,,,,,,,2
1356,Global Happiness Council (GHC),2018,Global Happiness Policy Report 2018,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,11,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,The “smart world” aspect comes into play in this chapter through the presentation of case studies of technologies that help to make cities more efficient while also increasing the subjective well-being of their residents.,"Happy Cities in a Smart World, is intended to advise local governments working to increase levels of happiness and well-being in their cities",,,,Strong,"Various cities are making their intentions explicit, like Smart Dubai’s vision to ensure Dubai is the Happiest City on Earth, while Barcelona’s smart city CTO is reviewing the brief to “rethink technology and what it can do for the people” (Tieman, 2017), and Amsterdam and London employing interdisciplinary teams finding ways to sustainably improve citizens’ lives. Smart cities are not about technology; they are about people. The focus now is very much ‘technology for people’.   The Dubai Economy department has collaborated with Smart Dubai to use the latest IBM Watson AI technology to provide a multi-channel service called “Rashid” (“Guide” in Arabic), built on the multi-service omni-channel platform, DubaiNow.  Some cities provide online business-centric service platforms, as is the case in the city of Quito in Ecuador. Between 2016 and 2017 the amount of transactions done through the Citizen Services Platform more than doubled.","In this paper, we address a number of policy relevant areas that can potentially enhance collective wellbeing. These include 1) urban design and zoning that can promote social inclusion and happy neighborhoods; 2) policies aimed at reducing public and private corruption and improving transparency; and 3) supporting healthy family relationships, for example through the prevention and treatment of family-related violence. the Smart Dubai Office collaborated with the University of Oxford and the Gallup Organization to develop the ‘Smart Happiness Index’ (SHI). Derived from analysis of quantitative data, this compound index provides a link between happiness and the six dimensions of the Smart Dubai 2021 Strategy: economy, people & society, governance, mobility, environment, and living",,,"16-17, 162-169"
1357,Global Happiness Council (GHC),2018,Global Happiness Policy Report 2018,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.4,8.3,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Mental illness is a major block on the economy; treating it would save billions. It is the main illness among people of working age.,"Treating it should be a top priority for every government, as should the promotion of good mental health.","It reduces national income per head by some 5 per cent - through non-employment, absenteeism, lowered productivity, and extra physical healthcare costs. Mental illness accounts for a third of disability worldwide.",,,Strong,"More than 500 million people in the world suffer from common mental disorders, yet under one fifth of them are in treatment (and even fewer are in treatments that correspond to best practices. Table 2. How much misery is explained by each factor in the world","The United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 3 commits governments to promote mental health and well-being; to treat substance abuse; reduce suicide; and to achieve universal health coverage, including for mental health. 2. Cost-effective treatments exist for depression and for anxiety disorders. They yield good recovery rates and are not expensive. Moreover, the savings in restored employment and productivity outweigh the costs. So this investment has a negative net cost to society. 3. Good models of widespread availability exist and can readily be copied (for example, in Chile; Madhya Pradesh, India; and the UK).",,,28-29
1358,Global Happiness Council (GHC),2018,Global Happiness Policy Report 2018,Global Assessment,,Global,,,3.4,8.5,3,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Most mentally ill people are of working age, but many of them cannot work due to their condition. Mental illness is also bad for the economy","The Sustainable Development Goals now provide an explicit framework for reversing this discrimination. In the Health Goal, labelled Goal 3, the following targets cover mental health (see Table 7). Change can begin at any level, but governments have a special responsibility.",,,,," Mental illness causes nearly 50% of registered disability in OECD countries, and worldwide it accounts for a third of all disability. This alone reduces GDP by roughly 2%. Table 3. Economic cost of mental illness (OECD countries)","Even in rich countries, only a quarter of those who are mentally ill are in treatment and in the poorest countries the rate is as low as 6% (see Table 4. Percentage of people with depression and anxiety being treated). And of those who are treated, well under half received minimally adequate treatment",,,"30-33, 40-41"
1359,Global Happiness Council (GHC),2018,Global Happiness Policy Report 2018,Global Assessment,,Global,,,,,4,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,A review of positive education interventions around the world reveals that they significantly improve both standardized test scores and scores on a variety of measures of emotional well-being,,,,,Medium,"  We begin with Bhutan because the first solid evidence that PE simultaneously increases well-being and national standardized exam performance emerged there (Adler, 2016) (see Figure 2 Standardized Test Scores in Bhutan, Figure 3 Youth Well-being (EPOCH) in Jalisco, Mexico). Government of the UAE launched a pilot in PE during September 2017.  As Dubai’s regulator of private schools in Dubai, the Knowledge and Human Development  Authority (KHDA) oversees the growth of quality education for more than 90% of Dubai’s school students."," Positive Education is to produce both well-being as well as to forward the traditional outcomes of schooling. PE is quickly spreading in China. Beijing. In 2012, the Bureau of Education of Beijing funded the 19th Middle School of Beijing to build a model of “happy education.”  Three years later, their rate of first-class college entrances rose from 69.6% in 2012 to 75% in 2015.In 2014, Geelong Grammar School (GGS) became the first school in the world to open an on-campus research, training, and development institute dedicated to Positive Education: The Institute  of Positive Education. In the four years since its launch, the Institute has grown to a team of  16 individuals and has delivered more than  200 training courses to educators in Australia and internationally.  ",,,"16-17, 54-61"
1360,Global Happiness Council (GHC),2018,Global Happiness Policy Report 2018,Global Assessment,,Global,,,13.2,3.4,13,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive," It will be hard to achieve happiness in a world of more frequent torrential storms, rapidly rising sea levels, and the growing intensity and frequency of other climate catastrophes ",Governments will find it harder and harder to promote the happiness of their citizens if they continue to neglect the growing environmental crises sweeping the planet and their own countries,"In many countries, powerful lobbies including  the coal, oil, and gas industries are using their political clout to slow climate action and to deny climate justice. Some fossil-fuel producers try to slow the transition to renewable energy; some automobile producers try to slow the transition to electric vehicles; some major agricultural companies try to slow the introduction of  regulations against land clearing and excess water use; and some politically powerful real estate developers try to slow the transition to sustainable zoning and urban plans. If these powerful lobbies succeed in blocking the  transition to sustainability, the results for the world will be calamitous.",,,Strong," The costs of environmental disasters is soaring, with 2017 reaching record levels of costs, including extreme hurricanes, forest fires, floods, droughts, heat waves, and other disasters. Even the world’s richest country is utterly vulnerable to rapidly intensifying environmental crises. ",,,,8-9
1361,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1362,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1363,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1364,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,4,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1365,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1366,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1367,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1368,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1369,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,9,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1370,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1371,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1372,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1373,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1374,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1375,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,16,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1376,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,10,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1377,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1378,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1379,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,3,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1380,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,4,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1381,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1382,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1383,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,7,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1384,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1385,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,9,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1386,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,10,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1387,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,11,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1388,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,12,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1389,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1390,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,14,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1391,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1392,"Glover, D., et al.",2016,A Foresight Scenario Method for Thinking About Complex Sustainable Development Interactions,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,16,17,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"ambition to create a more equal, sustainable, inclusive and secure world is central to the SDGs, for example, as well as other development strategies, policies and programmes at national and international levels.",,,,,Strong,,,,"paper describes an innovative foresight approach, which was used to examine the interactions among three themes that are likely to be significant for international development policy and strategy in the coming decades. existing foresight scenario methods (drivers of change analysis, scenarios, wind-tunnelling) were adapted to investigate possible trade-offs, tensions and synergies that may exist among competing international development goals of reducing inequalities, accelerating sustainability and building more inclusive and secure societies. Method combined foresight methods with programme theory analysis, an approach commonly used in impact evaluation.  substantive outcomes of our scenario workshops will be reported in a forthcoming project report",57-58
1393,"Goujon, A., et al.",2015,Education stalls and subsequent stalls in African fertility: A descriptive overview,Academic-peer reviewed,Africa,Regional,,,,,4,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"For many countries, particularly in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa, the 1980s saw a contradictory international discourse on education and economic reform. On the one hand, UNESCO highlighted the overriding importance of education for national development and organized a series of regional conferences that finally culminated in the World Conference on Education for All in Jomtien (Thailand) in 1990. ",,,,,Strong,,,,"The paper looks into potential association between recent stalls in fertility decline and stalls in the progress of education among women in relevant cohorts, in Sub-Saharan African countries, possibly resulting partly from Structural Adjustment Programs (SAPs) of the 1980s.",1289
1394,"Goujon, A., et al.",2015,Education stalls and subsequent stalls in African fertility: A descriptive overview,Academic-peer reviewed,Africa,Regional,,,,,17,8,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"On the other hand, the World Bank and the IMF emphasized the need to restructure economies, reduce the role and the size of government spending, and enforce fiscal discipline. In particular, the Mexican government’s 1982 announcement that it could no longer service its debt obligations was widely seen as a wake up call, reminding the global community that a restructuring and stabilization of public finances was a prerequisite for subsequent sustainable economic growth. And since many countries in Africa and Latin America were dependent on the World Bank and IMF for credit, these institutions were able to impose the structural adjustment policies on these countries that they considered necessary and appropriate.",,,,,Strong,,,,"The paper looks into potential association between recent stalls in fertility decline and stalls in the progress of education among women in relevant cohorts, in Sub-Saharan African countries, possibly resulting partly from Structural Adjustment Programs (SAPs) of the 1980s.",1289
1395,"Grant M., Huggett C., Willetts J. & Wilbur J.",2017,Gender Equality & Goal 6: The Critical Connection,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,6.2,5.2,6,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,A study found that improving public sanitation services in South Africa’s townships could reduce sexual violence by up to 30%,,,,,,,,,,8
1396,"Grant M., Huggett C., Willetts J. & Wilbur J.",2017,Gender Equality & Goal 6: The Critical Connection,Other reports and grey literature,,Global,,,11.1,5.2,11,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,A study found that improving public sanitation services in South Africa’s townships could reduce sexual violence by up to 30%,,,,,,,,,,8
1397,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"another reinforcing interaction between SDG 15 (land-based conservation) and SDGs 1 and 2 (ending poverty and hunger): the long tradition of coffee production in forests in southwestern Ethiopia, where coffee’s value as a cash crop, as well as its deep roots in the cultural identity of local communities, leads to high acceptance of forest conservation.","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.","Another example of the link between forests and sustainable communities is described by Min et al (2017, in this issue). They discuss forest degradation and economic risks associated with increasingly pervasive and intensified rubber farming in mountainous portions of southwestern China. The paper highlights the economic effects of transforming subsistence farming to commercial rubber farming. While this form of land management is profitable and has reduced poverty (and thus contributes to SDG 1), risks associated with price volatility are high. This intensive type of land use has also led to biodiversity losses and reduced carbon storage (Ziegler et al 2009). Extensive rubber plantations and the associated high water demand strongly affect catchment hydrology through reduced water storage and increased water losses via evapotranspiration (Guardiola-Claramonte et al 2010). This creates trade-offs with SDG targets 15.1, 15.2, 15.4, and 6.6",,,Strong,"Natural forests in developing countries provide more than a fifth of rural poor households’ livelihoods. Of this, 30% is for food, 35% for fuel, and 25% for building materials and fibers, with the remaining 10% for medicine, fodder, manure, and other uses",,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",248
1398,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,1,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In the UN’s Agenda 2030 (UN General Assembly 2015), the importance of mountain ecosystems is explicitly recognized in the category Life on Land (SDG 15), in which a specific target is ‘‘to ensure the conservation of mountain ecosystems, including their biodiversity, in order to enhance their capacity to provide benefits that are essential for sustainable development’’ (target 15.4). The need to conserve mountains is also emphasized in target 15.1, to ‘‘ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international agreements.’’ The link between forests and mountains is not explicitly acknowledged, but forests are a key component of mountain ecosystems in many areas around the world. Almost 15% of mountainous land area is covered by forests, and mountain forests comprise 28% of the world’s forests (Price 2005). While all 8 papers in this issue address targets 15.1 and 15.4 directly, they also identify a broader range of interrelationships between mountain forests and multiple SDGs, often in unexpected or poorly recognized ways, such as those related to poverty reduction or gender equality (SDGs 1 and 5, respectively) and forest resource access and management.","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.","However, mountain forests are also highly biodiverse, and many are well protected. Depending on the type of protected area (eg strict reserve vs cultural landscape) and the degree of involvement of local communities in management, this can limit access to forest resources and may create trade-offs between conservation and poverty alleviation in developing countries (Angelsen and Wunder 2003). This potential for negative interaction calls for pro-poor approaches to combat poverty in and around such areas. Options for ensuring that local communities benefit from protected areas include ecotourism, sustainable use of non-timber forest products, and zoning to include indigenous and community use areas",,,Strong,"Natural forests in developing countries provide more than a fifth of rural poor households’ livelihoods. Of this, 30% is for food, 35% for fuel, and 25% for building materials and fibers, with the remaining 10% for medicine, fodder, manure, and other uses",,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",247
1399,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"another reinforcing interaction between SDG 15 (land-based conservation) and SDGs 1 and 2 (ending poverty and hunger): the long tradition of coffee production in forests in southwestern Ethiopia, where coffee’s value as a cash crop, as well as its deep roots in the cultural identity of local communities, leads to high acceptance of forest conservation.","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,Strong,"Natural forests in developing countries provide more than a fifth of rural poor households’ livelihoods. Of this, 30% is for food, 35% for fuel, and 25% for building materials and fibers, with the remaining 10% for medicine, fodder, manure, and other uses",,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",248
1400,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,5,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"In the UN’s Agenda 2030 (UN General Assembly 2015), the importance of mountain ecosystems is explicitly recognized in the category Life on Land (SDG 15), in which a specific target is ‘‘to ensure the conservation of mountain ecosystems, including their biodiversity, in order to enhance their capacity to provide benefits that are essential for sustainable development’’ (target 15.4). The need to conserve mountains is also emphasized in target 15.1, to ‘‘ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international agreements.’’ The link between forests and mountains is not explicitly acknowledged, but forests are a key component of mountain ecosystems in many areas around the world. Almost 15% of mountainous land area is covered by forests, and mountain forests comprise 28% of the world’s forests (Price 2005). While all 8 papers in this issue address targets 15.1 and 15.4 directly, they also identify a broader range of interrelationships between mountain forests and multiple SDGs, often in unexpected or poorly recognized ways, such as those related to poverty reduction or gender equality (SDGs 1 and 5, respectively) and forest resource access and management.","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.","Male outmigration often has not led to more participation by women in community forest management, as might have been expected to fill the labor gap. Rather, outmigration has increased women’s work burden and time poverty. This dynamic creates trade-offs between SDG 1 (ending poverty, in this case through income from remittances) and SDG 5 (achieving gender equality and empowerment of all women and girls). It also highlights the strength of a broad agenda in which targets are integrated across multiple dimensions.",,,Strong,"Natural forests in developing countries provide more than a fifth of rural poor households’ livelihoods. Of this, 30% is for food, 35% for fuel, and 25% for building materials and fibers, with the remaining 10% for medicine, fodder, manure, and other uses",,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",247
1401,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,6,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Regulation of water supplies used for drinking and irrigation in mountain and lowland communities is a key service provided by mountain forests. This is addressed in SDG 6.6. ,"In the 15-year research agenda for Andean forest landscapes proposed by Mathez-Stiefel et al (2017, in this issue), almost all research themes and sub-themes address SDG 6.6. This confirms the relevance of mountain forests’ water-regulating services, in the context of a shared vision of sustainable Andean landscapes and the transformative action needed to achieve it.  A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,Strong,"Natural forests in developing countries provide more than a fifth of rural poor households’ livelihoods. Of this, 30% is for food, 35% for fuel, and 25% for building materials and fibers, with the remaining 10% for medicine, fodder, manure, and other uses",,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",248
1402,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,15,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,Mountains and mountain forests are thus likely to be crucial hubs for maintenance of biodiversity under altered climates.  ,"A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,Strong,,,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",249
1403,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.18,15.4,17,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Valuing the role of sustainable mountain forest management for rural communities is not an easy task because of a widespread lack of monitoring data on the economic performance of small farms. Toscani and Sekot demonstrate the value of long-term datasets for such analyses and describe a method for combining datasets not originally designed for comparison. Target 17.18 aims to enhance the capacity of developing countries to increase the availability of ‘‘high-quality, timely and reliable data.’’ Robust socioeconomic data for mountain systems, in particular, are lacking for many parts of the world. This target will contribute to the development of sound global databases on mountain communities, economies, and forests as illustrated by the design set up by Wangdi et al (2017, in this issue).","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,,,,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",250
1404,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,17.18,15.9,17,15,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Valuing the role of sustainable mountain forest management for rural communities is not an easy task because of a widespread lack of monitoring data on the economic performance of small farms. Toscani and Sekot demonstrate the value of long-term datasets for such analyses and describe a method for combining datasets not originally designed for comparison. Target 17.18 aims to enhance the capacity of developing countries to increase the availability of ‘‘high-quality, timely and reliable data.’’ Robust socioeconomic data for mountain systems, in particular, are lacking for many parts of the world. This target will contribute to the development of sound global databases on mountain communities, economies, and forests as illustrated by the design set up by Wangdi et al (2017, in this issue).","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,,,,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",250
1405,"Gratzer, G., and W.S. Keeton",2017,Mountain Forests and Sustainable Development: The Potential for Achieving the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda,Academic-peer reviewed,,Global,,,,,17,13,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"Wangdi et al explore critical elements of climate action (SDG 13), particularly understanding the effects of altered precipitation regimes, drought, and forest hydrology, including the growing likelihood of monsoon failures in the Himalayan Mountains. The research this paper describes was motivated by a lack of knowledge on adaptation potentials of ecosystems in the Himalayas. There is an information gap of this nature not only for this region but for many poor regions worldwide","A critical question for SDG implementation pertains to the causes of the ‘‘multiple crisis.’’ This idea refers to the ‘‘inner logic of a fossil fuel driven industrial system which only generates welfare while in its expansion or growth mode and, at the same time, shifts the real costs of growth to vulnerable income groups and future generations. This may occur in the form of social degradation, rampant public debt or by destroying natural resources’’.  WBGU (2011) identified 5 preconditions for political transformation: (1) a positive, mobilizing idea—a model of a society after transformation or a central promise that overcomes fear; (2) ideas, solutions, innovations, and projects which move from niches into the center of society; (3) the presence of change agents that pioneer transformation; (4) societal alliances that cross classical political and cultural boundaries; and (5) a state that takes action, formulates guiding principles and goals, and has inclusive political participation.",,,,,,,,"In this introductory essay we argue that sustainable forest management in mountain areas disproportionately contributes to achieving the SDGs. We discuss (1) the potential of mountain forests to help achieve SDGs in mountainous regions and beyond, (2) the potential of the SDGs to help solve severe socioeconomic and ecological problems in forested mountain areas, and (3) challenges and opportunities associated with implementing the SDGs. We base our argumentation also on the 8 papers presented in this Focus Issue of Mountain Research and Development. Together, they establish a clear connection between sustainable use and protection of mountain forests and vital ecosystem services upon which many regions depend.",250
1406,"Guijun, L., et al.",2017,A Multi-Agent Model for Urban Water-Energy-Food Sustainable Development Simulation,Academic-peer reviewed,urban areas in China,Sub-national,,,,,17,2,+2: Reinforcing,2,Positive,"The rapid development of urbanization in China has caused a string of problems such as population congestion, resource shortages and environmental degradation. Therefore, the city needs to seek a sustainable development pattern to save resources for its future development. As the basic elements for human survival and urban development, the supply and consumption of water, energy and food become the top priority, and they also have numerous interconnections in the process of production, consumption and management which could be called WEF-Nexus",,,,,Medium,,,2 -> 6 2 -> 7 6 -> 2 6 -> 7 7 -> 2 7 -> 6,"This paper introduces the Multi-Agent Modeling (ABM), simulates and analyzes the complex systems of WEF's allocation and flow in the city. By subdividing the urban system into different types of agents, household, firm and government, we discuss the relationship pattern and micro rules of various kinds of agents in WEF production and consumption, and then establish the Netlogo simulation model of urban consumption. Based on the interaction between social environment and multi-intelligent system, this model forms the simulation of WEF consumption distribution in the city, and simulates the interaction of various agents with the evolution of time, which facilitates research on the relationship between individual behavior at the micro level and macro model.",5
